Here are some assorted notes about the apartment at 41st and Chestnut.

## Utilities
The heat is controlled centrally. Chris Nares (landlord) gave me a space heater.

You can use the internet access from the pizza restaurant. The ESSID is
something like "NS Pizza", and the password is Chris Nares's phone number.

Only USPS can deliver to the apartment. You can talk to Chris Nares about
having him receive deliveries at the pizza restaurant. The apartment number
is "PH 1".

Garbage is collected from the street on Tuesday mornings. You can drop things
there or drop things any time in the dumpster. To get to the dumpster, turn
left after you exit the main door to the building.

## Furnishings
Chris Montepara left the tables and wardrobe, clothes rack, refrigerator,
and some assorted supplies. I'm going to leave them too.

The bed belongs to Nares.

I'm plan on taking everything else with me (mostly bedding and clothes).
I'm happy to leave the electric steamer and some blankets if they'll get used.

The finish on the table is chipping, but it'll probably be fine if you tape
the edges and put a tablecloth over it.

## Small annoyances
The bathtub/shower faucets don't turn off all the way, so they always drip
(and make noise). I'm sure Chris Nares can have this fixed, but I haven't
told him about it yet.

The bathroom sink drains quite slowly. It's probably just clogged, but
I haven't done anything about it yet.

The internet connection to the pizza restaurant is quite weak. I talked to
Phil downstairs and am using his internet access.

I hear people in the stairway more loudly than I'd expected; it's about as
loud as if it were one apartment that we were sharing. Also, it's only a
problem at night; people seem to be out during the day.

One of the windows doesn't have blinds.

## Larger annoyances
I find the apartment to be quite cold most of the time. It's fine when I'm
covered up with lots of blankets, but it's hard for me to work at the computer
and walk around and stuff.

I can hear the street really loudly, more loudly than other I hear people in
the apartment.

I've noticed mice in the apartment. I taped up the hole that I saw one run
through, and Chris Nares is going to have traps installed.
