Now that everything I care to have day-to-day fits
in a small suitcase and I don't have a real job,
I can bounce around quite whimsically.
Here are some ways you can take advantage of that.

## If you want to take a trip
If you want to take a trip,
I can sublet from you while
you're gone. This might pay for your trip!

## If you want to quit your job
If you want to quit your job
and can't because you need to pay rent, I can help.
You let me stay in your apartment, with you and everyone else
who is currently there. Everyone will obviously need to be in
on this. I'll pay your **full** rent (not just half) until
you find a new line of income.

It's fine if you don't have an extra bed; I can fit my portable
bed and bedding in a second suitcase.

I'll have to meet everyone first and to determine that having
so many people in one place won't be a problem for me.

## If you are moving before the end of your lease
If you are moving before the end of your lease,
I can help you find a subletter. I'll stay in your place
after you move away and show it to people. And it doesn't
matter where your apartment is as long as I can get there
and the travel expenses aren't too high.

Because I have so few things, I can usually move out with
a day's notice. This way, your potential subletters will have
much flexibility. I must be able to stay for at least one week.

The above conditions assume that you'll post an advertisement,
make a first pass through the responses, and so on. To help you
with this, I can show you how to use
[my craigslist database](/misc/craigslist)
to assess the sublet market. This may help you price your
listing and look for subletters.

I'm also happy to price the listing, compose the advertisement,
read responses, &c. so that you don't have to. If you have me do
this, I'll want to stay for at least two weeks.

It's fine if you don't have an extra bed; I have portable furnishings
in a storage unit, and I can fit them all in two suitcases.

I'll only do this one for people I know already.

## If you frequently rent out your place
and want someone to cover the days when you don't have renters,
talk to me; depending on the patterns of occupancy, I might
be interested.
