# Querying Tom's Craigslist database

## Install PuTTY if you're on Windows

## Generate an SSH key
If you're on Mac, GNU/Linux, or any other POSIX-like system, this should work.

    ssh-keygen

This will create a file called (probably) `~/.ssh/id_rsa` and another called
(probably) `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`. The former is your private key, and the latter
is your public key.

If you're on Windows, follow
[this tutorial]()
and then add it to PuTTY.

## Make an account
Tom needs to make you an account. Send him the following.

* Your SSH public key
* The username you would like

He will make an account on his [nsa](https://the-nsa.org) server.

### What Tom needs to do to make your account.
*This is stuff that Tom needs to do; you may ignore this section if you are not Tom.*

1. Add a Unix user (`useradd $username`).
2. Put the appropriate SSH key in `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.
3. Create the user in the database (`CREATE USER $username`).
4. Grant permissions in the database (`GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE craigslist TO $username`
    and `GRANT SELECT ON listing TO $username`).

## Log in
Once you've set up your SSH key and Tom has created the account, you'll be
able to do this.

    ssh username@tlevine.the-nsa.org 'psql craigslist'

This will put you into the postgres shell, where you can run queries.

## Running queries
Here are some ideas of queries you might run.

The Craigslist data are in one table (listing). Show the schema of the table.

    \d listing

Get one listing.

    SELECT * FROM LISTING LIMIT 1;

Limit results to a particular craigslist site of interest
and a particular section of interest.

    SELECT * FROM LISTING
    WHERE site = 'nashville.craigslist.org'
      AND url LIKE '%/zip/%'
    LIMIT 1;
    
Look for furnished apartments that appear to be one-month sublets for
February to March

    SELECT * FROM LISTING
    WHERE site = 'newyork.craigslist.org'
      AND url LIKE '%/sub/%'
      AND html LIKE '% furnished%'
      AND html LIKE '%February%'
      AND html LIKE '%March%'
    LIMIT 1;
    
Look for listings that have been up for a while and were recently updated.

    SELECT * FROM LISTING
    WHERE site = 'newyork.craigslist.org'
      AND posted < '2014-02-01'
      AND updated > '201U-02-05'
    LIMIT 4;
