People use lots of rags when cleaning printing presses.

As of April 2014, Risley's letterpress shop is running
low on rags.

## 2010 Rag purchase
Risley purchased 30 pounds of rags in May 2010, and they
seem to have worked out well. Here's some more information
about that purchase.

I allocated some rags on May 2, 2010, during 
Hasta la Vista Elaine Kommittee (formerly Cinco de
Moustache<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cinco_de_Moustache>Awareness
Kommittee). Here is the relevant section of
[KOMMITTEE MINUTES FOR MAY THE SECOND OF THE YEAR TWO THOUSAND AND TEN](kommittee1).

> -Tom: Let’s ignore the fan and baby wipes for the print shop.  The rags
> would be useful in the near future because need to clean in Print Shop.  Rags
> over tee shirts because rags cheaper and cut in a better way so you get more
> use out of them.  $100 for lots of rags.
> 
> -Jeff: Budget? I would kind of like the fan for getting strange things in
> the air out.
> 
> -Tom: Fan and baby wipes could be for next year.  Rags would be useful soon.
> 
> -Jeff: We have $400.  If we want this fan, we may as well allocate now.
> 
> -Elaine: Working on getting exhaust system for shops, but not making any
> promises.
> 
> -Bennett: Should we allocate for the eventuality in case ventilation system
> doesn’t go through?
> 
> -Tom: Would facilities pay for a fan?
> 
> -Elaine: I have one I think.
> 
> -Molly: How long would supply last?
> 
> -Tom: They say you can wash them, but we don’t.  This is more than we had at
> beginning of last year and those have lasted almost a year.
> 
> -Acclaimed.

I sent the request to Elaine on May 12, but it looks like
that was too late to get it in during that semester;
the rags were allocated again on September 12, 2010,
and I guess we bought them shortly thereafter. Here is
the relevant section from the
[KOMMITTEE MINUTES FOR SEPTEMBER THE 12, 2010](kommittee2)
(FIRE MARSHALL LOVE/WOLVES ON A PLANE KOMMITTEE)

> Tom, $100, rags for the print shop.
> 
> Nolan: Are there specific rags or can we just find some old shirts?
> 
> Ben: He is going to buy them locally in bulk, they will last forever.
> 
> Jim: Are we still talking about this? Oh, I was recently in the print shop,
> and they really do use A LOT of rags, like really, and you need a special
> kind not to hurt your press or the print.
> 
> Sarah: Were these rags part of last week’s print shop allocation?
> 
> Ben: No.
> 
> Acclaimed.

Side note: Jim's comment about needing a special kind of rags is kind of wrong.
I guess you shouldn't use steel wool, but ordinary cheap cotton rags are fine.

On September 13, 2010, I sent the following email to Lauren Elan the hall
director. (You can see the full thread [here](rhd).)

    Subject: Fwd: Print Shop Rag Purchase
    From: Thomas Levine <thomas.levine@gmail.com>
    To: "Bennett M. Wineholt" <bmw39@cornell.edu>, Lauren Elan <lde27@cornell.edu>
    Date: Mon, 13 Sep 2010 02:04:27 -0400
    
    Hi,
    
    I'd like the rags below.
    
    Tom
    
    ---------- Forwarded message ----------
    From: Thomas Levine <thomas.levine@gmail.com>
    Date: 2010/5/12
    Subject: Re: Print Shop Rag Purchase
    To: "Bennett M. Wineholt" <bmw39@cornell.edu>
    Kopia: Elaine Bushey <ekb27@cornell.edu>
    
    
    I can't find any rag suppliers closer than Rick. Go here
    
    http://www.ricksrags.com/retailorders.htm
    
    I want three units of item # 003, which will cost $96. If you use the
    online cart, you'll have to pay tax, so call him.
    
    Toll Free: 1-888-742-5724
    Locally: 315-697-8510
    
    Tom
    
    2010/5/12 Bennett M. Wineholt <bmw39@cornell.edu>:
    > Hi Tom,
    >
    > Please email Elaine with enough information to buy the rag package you
    > wanted for the Print Shop.
    >
    > Thanks!
    > Ben
    >

As far as I can tell, this website hasn't changed at all.

## Tom
In case someone reading this doesn't know me and is thus
wondering why Risley letterpress information is on
Thomas Levine's website, it's because I was the shop manager
from 2008 to 2011.
