## Creating a remote git repository
Create a public remote git repository like so.

    mkdir new-project
    cd new-project
    git init
    publicgit

That creates remotes at
[dada.pink](http://dada.pink)
and [GitHub](https://github.com/tlevine) and sets them
as origin.

Create a private remote git repository like so.

    mkdir new-project
    cd new-project
    git init
    privategit

That creates a remote at [safe](/operations/) and sets
it as the origin.

(These functions are provided in the
[profile](https://github.com/tlevine/profile).)

## Switch keyboard layouts
Type `aoeu` to switch to QWERTY, and
type `asdf` to switch to Dvorak.

## Looking for email addresses
Here's how I look for people's email addresses.

    $ address Elio
    alias elio.someone Elio Someone <elio@some-domain.com> 
    $ address Elio >> ~/.mutt/aliases/people

### How it works
`address` uses notmuch behind the scenes. Let's see what happens when
I search for "elio" with notmuch.

    $ notmuch search elio
    thread:000000000002fd3a   Thu. 20:26 [12/13] Redon Skikuli, Thomas Levine, Elio Qoshi; [_@thomaslevine.com: Re: Hi] (inbox replied signed)
    thread:0000000000007925   2013-05-17 [1/3] Jake Porway| Thomas Levine, Craig Barowsky; Project write-up help (flagged inbox)
    thread:00000000000075d1   2013-04-16 [1/1] Stack Exchange; Cross Validated Weekly Newsletter - Tuesday, April 16, 2013 (inbox unread)
    thread:000000000000d9a8   2010-12-17 [1/1] Jeff Stark; nonsensenyc: 12.17 to 12.22 (inbox)
    thread:000000000000d967   2009-10-23 [1/1] Jeff Stark; nonsensenyc: 10.23 to 10.29 (inbox)

The point is that I have a few emails containining "elio".
`address` is a shell function.

    address() {
      name="$1"
      
      # Search my emails.
      notmuch show from:"$name" or to:"$name"|grep -vi '\(twitter\|tweet\|linkedin\)' | grep "$name"|grep -m1 '[^ ]@'|cut -d: -f2|
        sed 's/>.*$/>/' |
        tr , '\n'|sed -n "/$name/ s/^ *\([^<]*\)/\1\n\1/p" |
        sed '1 s/ *$//' | sed '1 s/ /./g' | sed '1 s/\(.*\)/alias \L\1/' |
        tr '\n' ' '
      echo
    }

That looks through my emails for an email address with "elio" that seems
not to be from Twitter or LinkedIn. Then it formats the address in mutt's
alias (address book) format.

### More on notmuch
Notmuch also organizes things by thread; here's a common way I use notmuch.

    notmuch search flossk
    notmuch search thread:00000000000260a0
    notmuch show thread:00000000000260a0

