# Things I learned about cycling recently
I recently have been reading and listening a lot about bicycles.
Very relatedly, I [got a bicycle]()
four months ago (December 2014).

Here I discuss some things I have learned.

## Misconceptions about cycling

Here are I address some misconceptions about cycling that I had or that
I had heard from other people.

### Cycling is at least as much hassle as walking or taking public transports
One of the appeals of cycling was that I could avoid going to airports and
booking travel tickets. It turns out that the hassle is merely different.
Flying involves using complicated websites, navigating bureaucracies, dealing
with security screening, and watching out for police. Cycling, on the other
hand, means carrying locks and tools, storing the bicycle, and fixing it.

And if I want to take the bicycle on public transport, there is extra
bureaucracy and complication.

### You do have to carry your bicycle
I held off a long time from getting a bicycle because I didn't want to carry
the bicycle. Then I somehow convinced myself that it I could ride a bicycle
instead of carrying it and that it would be pretty easy to take a bicycle on
a train or airplane. Also, I thought it would be easier to carry stuff because
it would be in pannier bags on racks rather than on my back.

I thought it would be easier

### It's not easier to carry stuff on the bicycle

### Cycling long distances isn't hard
The main actions of pedaling and navigating a bicycle for a long distances
is not hard. I still have no idea what people are talking about when they
say that a bike tour is difficult on the body.

Let me say that more precisely. If I walk with only a few things in my bag
and take breaks periodically, I will be unpleasantly tired after three hours.
On the other hand, I can cycle all day with 40 pounds of baggage (still with
periodic breaks). I'll be tired at the end, but it won't be as bad as three
hours of walking.

And if we're comparing based on distance it's even crazier. Three hours of
walking is about ten miles. I could do that on ten miles on bike without sweating.

I got this bicycle four months ago, and I haven't ridden it much. Before
getting the bicycle, I walked a lot. If you really do ride bicycles or
exercise or something, cycling would probably be super easy.

## Things that were right


## Other interesting stuff

### On the Netherlands being good for cycling
People often remark that the Netherlands has
[outstanding cycling infrastructure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cycling_in_the_Netherlands).
This remark ignores that the Netherlands has good transportation infrastructure
in general.

The Dutch have higher standards for quality of life than I am used to.
You might say that they are "spoiled". For example, to the Dutch, 20 minutes
is a long tram ride, and 1 hour is a ridiculous car ride. The mother of one
Dutch friend was distraught upon learning that her daughter was going to move
20 kilometers away for school.

Furthermore, when something is less than stellar, the Dutch do something about
it, rather than merely accepting what they get.

The good cycling infrastructure came about because...

### OpenStreetMap and GPS is really awesome

### On the ease of getting out of cities
A bicycle appealed to me because I thought it would make it easier to get out
of cities. One one hand, I have been able to go to places that weren't cities.
On the other hand, I could have done this more cheaply by taking trains and taxis.
Consider how much I spent just to have my bicycle with me for the past three weeks.

* $59 to check the bicycle on the airplane
* $59 to check all my other stuff, which wouldn't fit on carry-on because of
    all the bike tools
* About $400 of repairs for stuff that got damaged on the flight
* More money if I decide to take the bicycle

(This excludes the purchase cost of the bicycle and small things like bicycle
tickets on trains.)

I might have saved $150 by putting the bicycle in a hard case. The case would
have cost about $200, and I would have had to take a taxi or something to the
airport.

Anyway, instead of paying $500 or $600 to have the bicycle for three weeks,
I could have taken expensive taxis and trains every week.
