People lately talk about an "evangalist" role in their company.
This might have been considered a combination of "advertising",
"marketing", or "sales" in the past.

Here's how I think one should go about it.

## Big companies or small companies
Decide whether you are going after big companies with lots of employees
and long sales processes or after tiny companies with a handful of employees
that probably aren't going to exist next year.

I'll tell you about the different materials you should develop, places you
should look for clients, ways you should present yourselves, and the other
staff that you need; and I'll tell you how these are different depending on
whether you're going for big companies or small companies.

Note well: Sometimes it isn't clear whether the company you're going after is
big or small, as the distinction isn't always clear. Small companies are like
project teams inside of big meta-companies. Employees of small hip startups
socialize frequently with employees of other hip startups on lunch breaks,
on mailing lists, and at conferences, just like how employees of big companies
socialize within the company. These employees of small also move fluidly
between small companies. When a big company is acting like a bunch of small
companies or a small company is acting like a bunch of big companies, consider
my evangalism suggestions for both big and small companies.

## If you are going after big companies
Your presentations, brochures, &c. should focus on the value of your
product in the specific situations of your potential clients. Figure out
the situation of your clients, and demonstrate how your product is
relevant.

Seek out potential clients at high-profile events. These are usually
quite expensive, so sponsoring and exhibiting at expensive conferences
is a pretty good strategy.

Because you are doing corporate sales, it is very important that you have
a good sales team to funnel any prospects to. Also, because you are selling
complex software to a very high level of the organization, it is less
important that the software be especially easy for beginners to use.

## If you are going after small companies
It should be very easy to get started using your product. The interface should
be quite intuitive, and you should have documentation that walks people through
the common uses step-by-step. The documentation should be very prominently
available on the internet.

This is quite different from targeting big companies;
there are too many small companies for you to target any of them specifically,
and their needs may change so frequently that it isn't useful for them to worry
too much about how your product addresses their specific uses.

Small companies are likely to have less money, so you need to go after lots of
small companies. This is a long-term effort. Make software they like, teach
them to use it, release some portion of it for free, and hope that some of the
people who have heard about your software will eventually find a need to buy it.
And you need to stick with your product for a while. On the other hand, this is
less intense of an effort. After you expose your product to people, you mostly
have to wait, keep working on the product, and make it easy for people to get
in touch with you later. You don't need as big of a sales team, and it's okay if
are a bit sporatic with your evangalism. It also doesn't cost as much money upfront.
