[[!meta title="Figuring out why people are being silly"]]
[[!meta description=""]]

Being silly involves saying one thing and doing another. Why don't people
say things that match how they act?

As I see it, this usually happens because people are hiding something from
themselves or don't understand themselves. (These are usually the same thing.)
In some cases, people just need a bit more time before they can articulate
their feelings/thoughts.

You'll read below about some general explanations for this discrepancy
between what people say and what people do. After that, you'll learn of
some general approaches to figuring out the explanation for a particular
person's particular discrepancy.

## Drill down to fundamental human motivations
I try to explain why people behave the way they do in terms of reasonably
fundamental animal/human motivations. This may be an obvious goal for you,
but I find that it isn't for many people.

This is especially common when people discuss career choices. What would
possibly motivate a middle-aged person to leave his dentistry career and
start a new path in letterpress printing? (I actually met such a person.)
Whatever it is, it's *not* that he has a fundamental aversion to specifically
dentistry or that he has a fundamental attraction to letterpress printing.

Perhaps he had gotten good, through dentistry, at doing very precise things
with his hands, and perhaps these abilities transferred well to letterpress
printing. Perhaps he found himself wanting to teach things to people
(or otherwise to make a lasting impression on the world) and found that he
was more able to teach classes in letterpress printing than in dentistry.
And perhaps he associated letterpress printing with good memories, such as
a family member or friend.

Of course, we don't actually know what these fundamental human motivations
are. Thus, rather than having one list of truely fundamental human motivations,
we have several lists that seem to work reasonably well. I describe some of
them below.

### Typical life motivations
You probably have some intuition about what people want in life.
(It might just seem like common sense.) In case you think you don't,
you might read what these various fancy people thought.

* Big five
* Erikson
* Kohlberg
* ...

I think that all of these are mostly right if you interpret them
as they were intended to be interpreted.

### Hygiene factors
Silliness, and grumpiness in general, are aggrevated by other
unpleasant/stressful things, like being hungry or tired.

### Reasons why it might be hard for someone to act on these motivations
* Culture, norms
* Money/power
* Prejudice
* Friend groups
* Sudden changes

For example, if someone is usually
[consciencious](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Five_personality_traits#Conscientiousness)
but wants to fit in with a group that is particularly unconscienciousness,
the person might start telling himself that he is very unconsciencious;
furthermore he might decide that conscienciousness is bad and that everyone
should become unconsciencious.

Or, if a person is looking for a purpose in life and can't find one, she
might try very hard to convince herself that she does have purpose; also,
she might advise people as to how they might find purpose in life.


### People get angry can't get what they want
Even if people seem to be legitimately angry, there is probably something
more complex going on. For example, lots of people get upset when the
government does stupid things, but people who are involved with activism
seem to be looking for something other than change in the government.
That is, the people who want a change in environmental policy also want

* Food
* A place to sleep
* Homeliness
* Friends
* A purpose in life
* ...

Everyone else wants these things too, but it's harder for some people to
get these things. The people who get particularly about not having one
of these things are usually the ones who are having a hard time getting
the other things.


## Specific things you can do
Silliness can usually be explained with the reasons above, but we still
need to figure out exactly what the reason is. Here are some things I do
as I am trying to figure out the specific motivation for a particular
person's silliness.

These things are general strategies for digging deeper into what's going
on for the person. The section on [patterns](patterns) is organized around
different quirks that are indicative of particular things.

### Pay attention to the questions people ask
There are a lot of possible questions that you could ask as smalltalk, so
even smalltalk might you something. But they're also smalltalk, so they
might just tell you that the people hang around people who make that type
of smalltalk.

"What do you do?" might mean that the person is wondering what she does.
She might be considering changing jobs, she might identify strongly with
her work, and she might be looking for work. This question also pops up
when people are starting their first real jobs; when they're looking for
work, they're wondering what they should do, and when they have just started,
they're wondering what they should do next.

"Where are you from?" might mean that someone is wondering where she is
from. She might be that she wants to see more of the world, and it might
mean that the person identifies strongly with a particular place (probably
her hometown or present location). In businessy settings, this question
might really "What organization do you work for?", and that might mean
that the person identifies strongly with her organization.

"What did you study in university?" might mean that the person is considering
what he should study in university. It might be that he is in university or
starting university soon. I think it sometimes means other things too, but
I haven't figured those out.

### Things that are written about someone were often written by that someone
You can find a one-paragraph "bio" about many persons. These might appear
in a text that the person contributed to or on the website of an organization
that the person works/volunteers/whatever for. The person that a bio describes
is usually also the person who wrote the bio.

Some people have more of a presence on the internet. They may have personal
websites, and they might have written the copy for websites about their
projects and organizations.

GDELT: *He* did it
Mason: She's *big*.
Tom: Indecisive? Does crazy stuff? Pink?

Some things that I notice but haven't come up with an explanation for

"made with <3" on computer sites.

