I recently got a bike! It's a 2010 Surly Long Haul Trucker.
And then I got assorted fancy bike toys. And I am likely to get rid
of all of this soon.

## Original interest in bicycles
I hadn't previously been into bikes and hadn't had a bike in 15 years,
but I got excited about bikes on Sunday, November 30, 2014.
While standing at a look-out place looking out over some pretty water
in Seattle, I got into a conversation with a person who was also there
and also with a bike. He said that highway 101 is a great place to bike
long distances and that there's camping along the way. This sounds fun.
I want to see pretty places and go camping without a car.

Moreover, I want to go to many places in the United States, and most of
them are practically inaccessible public transit, which is usually
unpleasant in other ways too. I had been thinking about whether I should
finally get a driver's license, but cycling seemed easier once I realized
I could cycle between cities. I previously hadn't realized that you could
ride your bicycle when moving house, rather than carrying it.

## Considering what type of bicycle to get
I started looking at all sorts of cycling things on the internet and
compiled a [bunch of links](internet/). I determined that I should get an
American bike because they're cheapest and that I should get a Surly
Long Haul Trucker, specifically. And then I checked Craigslist and
happened to find a good deal on one of those that fit me pretty well.
Woo!

Here are some [things I was thinking about getting](want/) and have mostly
gotten. And here are some extended [notes on the wanting](want-notes/).

## Remarks about cycling after getting a bicycle
Not having cycled much before, I had a lot to learn about bicycles.
Here are some things that were not obvious to me before.

### Some people actually like cycling
When people talk about "cycle touring", I think the emphasis is on the
"cycle" rather than the "touring". I saw a bicycle as a more convenient
mode of transit than airplane and long-distance train and was not so
concerned with the main act of pedaling and steering.

### Cycling isn't exhausting
People keep telling me that cycling long distances is hard physically
on the body. I never understood this, and I still don't.

Let me say that more precisely. If I walk with only a few things in my bag
and take breaks periodically, I will be unpleasantly tired after three hours.
On the other hand, I can cycle all day with 40 pounds of baggage (still with
periodic breaks). I'll be tired at the end, but it won't be as bad as three
hours of walking. And I'll also have travelled much further.

### Carrying a bicycle is exhausting
It took me a while to decide on getting a bicycle because I didn't want to carry
the bicycle. Then I somehow convinced myself that it I could ride a bicycle
instead of carrying it and that it would be pretty easy to take a bicycle on
a train or airplane. Also, I thought it would be easier to carry stuff because
it would be in pannier bags on racks rather than on my back.

I somehow hadn't read about the hassle associated with carrying a bicycle.
I'll say more about this later, but let's say for now that carrying my bicycle
for a few minutes in a train station is way more exhausting than riding it for
a few hours on a road. I suppose my bicycle is designed more for the latter
than for the former.

### Carrying a bicycle is also expensive
A bicycle appealed to me because I thought it would make it easier to get out
of cities. One one hand, I have been able to go to places that weren't cities.
On the other hand, I could have done this more cheaply by taking trains and taxis.
Consider how much I spent just to have my bicycle with me for the past three weeks.

* $59 to check the bicycle on the airplane
* $59 to check all my other stuff, which wouldn't fit on carry-on because of
    all the bike tools
* About $400 of repairs for stuff that got damaged on the flight
* More money if I decide to take the bicycle

(This excludes the purchase cost of the bicycle and small things like bicycle
tickets on trains.)

I might have saved $150 by putting the bicycle in a hard case. The case would
have cost about $200, and I would have had to take a taxi or something to the
airport.

Anyway, instead of paying $500 or $600 to have the bicycle for three weeks,
I could have taken expensive taxis and trains every week.

### Tools and supplies are big
It had not occurred to me how much stuff I would need for cycling. Aside from
the bike itself (which is quite big, by the way), I also need to carry locks,
tools, and supplies like oil. These extra things approximately double the volume
and triple the mass of all of my stuff.

And that's ignoring all of the extra bags and the rack that I need to carry all
of this in! Those aren't that heavy, but they are quite voluminous.

### On the Netherlands being good for cycling
People often remark that the Netherlands has
[outstanding cycling infrastructure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cycling_in_the_Netherlands).
This remark ignores that the Netherlands has good transportation infrastructure
in general.

The Dutch have higher standards for quality of life than I am used to.
An American might say that they are "spoiled". For example, to the Dutch,
20 minutes is a long tram ride, and 1 hour is a ridiculous car ride.
(Their trams and cars also move more slowly than I am used to, by the way.)
The mother of one Dutch friend was distraught upon learning that her daughter
was going to move 20 kilometers away from home for school.

In the United States, one might classify such talk as whining and then ignore
the talk. Not in the Netherlands! There, if you complain to the appropriate
person, that person will actually do something about it!

### OpenStreetMap and GPS is really awesome


## What bicycle I would get knowing what I know now
I chose my present bicycle by reading on the internet about what other people
use for touring and then getting very standard stuff.

<h3 id="good-infrastructure">Bicycles are nearly pointless in western Europe</h3>
I completely don't see the point of cycling between the cities that I have
been cycling through (Netherlands and western Germany). Everything is so
well connected that I could just *walk* (not public transit, just walking)
between cities and still easily find a real bed to sleep on each night.

It's also so well connected that I could take local public transit
between cities. Or long-distance trains.

### For places with good infrastructure
As I indicate above, bicycles are nearly pointless in places that are well
connected. But I did say "nearly" rather than "completely". I liked being
able to cycle from one part of a city to another as I could do this faster
than walking and without carrying stuff on my back. But I didn't do this
very often as it was quite inconvenient to prepare for this.

Here are the extra things that I would do surrounding such a trip.

* Add and remove bags from bicycle
* Lock and unlock the bicycle
* Find a place to park the bicycle

I think a bicycle, or something like it, could be convenient in places
like this if the above difficulties could be removed.
I think I could do this by having a bicycle that either is very
cheap or that can quickly be made small enough to carry in a backpack.

#### Cheap
A bicycle that is very cheap is nice because I wouln't need as good of
a lock or as many locks. Also, if it's a generally bad bicycle, I wouldn't
care so much about keeping it in good shape, so I would be fine with not
owning tools. Also, I wouldn't need to take it on airplanes as I could just
buy a new one every time I go to a new place. On the other hand, buying stuff
so often is a lot of work, and I would rather avoid that.

#### Compact
The other option is a bicycle that is so compact as to make it easy to carry.
If it is so easy to carry, then locks are not necessary, as I can just take
the bicycle with me rather than locking it. Also, I wouldn't need to carry
tools, as I wouldn't need to disassemble it for transport, and I could just
carry it to the nearest bike shop if it ever broke in some way (most likely
a flat tire).

Unfortunately, most folding bicycles are still too big to check on airplanes
and trains as ordinary luggage. (They might not cost extra, but they're big
enough that you need to check the policies.) Also, they are quite expensive,
so it might be cheaper to take lots of taxis.

* http://www.slidingbike.com/models-12.html
* http://www.nanoo.biz/the-nanoos-2/
* http://www.strida.com/en/products/?method=detail&aid=142
* http://www.fubi.com/ (maybe)
* http://www.smartcog.co.jp/Products/koma.htm
* http://www.smartcog.co.jp/Products/coolmint.htm
* http://5links.jp/product.html
* http://www.17bicycle.com/m2012.html

I hear also that they're not good for long distances. But I heard that
cycling long distances was hard in general, and that was very wrong, so
I think they're at least worth a shot.

### For places with bad infrastructure
I had originally been thinking about using the bicycle in the United States.
Maybe it would have made sense there, or in another developing country.

### If I really really really need to camp
The only reason I see to have a touring bike is so I can carry a lot of
stuff, and the only reason I see to do this is if I plan on camping.
I had figured that being able to camp would make travel more convenient,
as I would have more flexibility as to where I sleep. I no longer think
that is the case.

As I mentioned [above](#good-infrastructure),  


### If you don't use it very often
I think a bicycle would be more convenient if I used it only infrequently
and stored it in a consistent place when I wasn't using it. This way, I could
use it only when I thought it would be helpful and not when I thought it would
get in the way of things.

But then I'd need to find a place to store it. Moreover, what's the point of
having one if you don't use it very often? For the price of a bicycle, you
could just take lots of taxis instead.

## Relevants of my preferences to other people
Lots of people are okay with maintaining a car. If you manage to do this,
a bicycle should be a piece of cake.
