title: How to kick someone out of a hackerspace when he's being very disruptive

An inconvenience of hackerspaces and similarly communal institutions
is that anyone can get in, including people who disrupt what everyone
else is doing. This rare occurrence can be quite annoying if you don't
know how to handle it. Fortunately, I *do* know how to handle it
(unless I'm wrong), and I present my knowledge in the present article.

## Overview
I'm going to describe the sort of situation that I intend to deal with
and then present my recommendation of procedures for handling this
situation. The recommendations include

* Stuff that should be included in your hackerspace's bylaws
* Trainings for new members
* Directions to give to people who do not know the procedures

I'm going to keep saying "hackerspace", but this will apply for similar
a institution that you don't call "hackerspace".

## The situation

## Bylaws
In my view, the main reason to have a concept of membership in a hackerspace
is to be able to kick people out.

Why just one person? So you can't have one person kick out the whole room

## Immediate response
A person who knows the conflict resolution procedures (PWKTCRP) should
firmly and loudly declare that it appears that a conflict exists and that
the hackerspace has procedures to handle this. After making this declaration,
the PWKTCRP will

1. Request assistance from everyone who is available
2. Explain the procedures
3. Step through the procedures

### Requesting assistance

### Explaining the procedures
The PWKTCRP should convey the following.

1. You may declare that a conflict exists between yourself and another
    person. You must choose one, and only one, other person.
2. If this happens, the second person may declare a third person who is
    involved in the conflict. The third may declare a forth, and so on.
3. At this point, anyone who is not yet in the conflict may also declare
    that she is, herself, part of the conflict.
3. Once the people have declared who is in the conflict, we consider a
    conflict to exist that involves all of the people.
4. Everyone who is involved in the conflict and is not a member of the
    hackerspace will have two minutes to gather her things and then
    leave the hackerspace and stay out for twelve hours.
  * Members who are involved in the conflict are
      encouraged to leave as well, but they don't have to.
  * If two minutes isn't enough time for someone, he should gather what
      he can and ask someone else to gather the rest.
  * A photograph will be taken of each person involved in the conflict.
5. People involved in the conflict may, of course, meet somewhere else
    to talk, fight, &c., until the twelve-hour ban is up.
6. The PWKTCRP will report on the incident to the mailing list of the
    hackerspace, and everyone else is welcome to comment on it.
7. After the twelve hour ban is up, anyone involved in the conflict may
    email the mailing list to declare that the conflict still exists.
    If this happens, the conflict will be brought up at the next meeting,
    and the people at that meeting may choose to ban anyone involved in
    the conflict.
8. Provide an example based on the present situation: For example, Sam
    might say that she and Alex are in a conflict. Alex might say that
    Jack is also involved in the conflict. If this happens, there is a
    conflict between Sam, Alex, and Jack. I (or someone else) will take
    their photos, and then they will have two minutes to gather belongings
    and leave the space. I will post a note on the mailing list.
    After twelve hours, Sam, Alex, and Jack can come back in, and any
    of them may request on the mailing list that the conflict be brought
    up during the meeting this Wednesday.
9. I don't expect you to remember all of these rules, so I will also
    guide you through the process.

If anyone interrupts during this explanation, the PWKTCRP should cut off
the interrupter right away and declare that there will be time for
commentary later.

### Stepping through the procedures
*You can follow a script a bit like this one.*


Let's start. Raise your hand if you would like to declare a conflict,
and I'll call on you.
*Call on the first person.* Whom would you like to declare a conflict with?
*If the person takes more than two seconds,* You haven't answered the question.
If you don't tell me who the person is within ten seconds, we will consider
you not to have declared a conflict.
*If the person does not declare a conflict, repeat this with another raised hand.*

Okay, [person that the person named], would you like to add someone else to the
conflict? *If the person takes more than two seconds,* Answer or [see above]....
*Repeat until it's done.*

Would anyone else like to add herself to the conflict? Raise your hand if you
want to.

There is now a conflict between [all of the people---list their names].
Please line up, and I'll take a picture of all of you.
*Take the picture.*
You now have two minutes to gather your belongings and leave the hackerspace.
I'll follow you outside when you leave so I can go through the rest of the
procedures. Everyone else, follow....
