title: On discrimination against pedestrians

People often complain that things are designed in various ways that don't
support cycling. When they say this, they probably mean that the environment
is worse for cycling than for for driving. Somehow, people never talk about
how all these things that are worse for cycling than for driving are even
worse for walking.

## Specific issues

### Storage lockers
We have racks for bicycles and parking lots for motor vehicles. If you're
storing your bicycle, motorcycle, car, truck, &c. in one of these parking
spots, you can also store a bunch of other junk with it.

But we don't have storage lockers for backpacks! I mean we do, but it is
nowhere near as common and usually costs money. I would love to have a spot
to leave my backpack while I walk around town, and I need a bicycle in order
to be able to have such a spot.

### Pedestrian paths
If you want to drive a long distance, you can take a road or highway.
Because that's apparently dangerous on a bicycle, we sometimes make
bicycle lanes on highways. Sidewalks are much less common.

Part of the issue is that, while pedestrian paths probably exist, you
are much less likely to find a sign directing you along it. Also,
crosswalks are often absent from intersections, and jaywalking laws
in the United States scare me away from crossing streets on foot.
But I'm totally fine with changing lanes on a bicycle, because that
is clearly legal.

The lack of pedestrian paths was particularly bad in the Netherlands;
I couldn't find pedestrian paths for most of the distance between Delft
and The Hague, so I wound up walking on the cycle path for much of the way.

## How I realized this
I recently got a bicycle for the first time in pretty much forever,
and I have been realizing that it is way easier to get around on bicycle
than on foot, even in cities places that supposedly aren't good for
cycling. This didn't make sense to me. Bicycles are bulky objects that
do best on flat and smooth surfaces (especially mine) and are easy to
steal; surely bicycles should be more annoying. It finally hit me that
cycling is so much easier because we actually design the environment
for cycling, and not for walking.

Most people probably wouldn't notice the stuff I have noticed. I have
never had a car, and I only just got a bicycle; before getting the bicycle,
I walked everywhere. Also, I'm pretty okay with spending three hours
walking somewhere, so I walk more than most people.
