title: The goal of hiding things from others is often to hide things from ourselves.

The goal of hiding things from others is often to hide things from ourselves.
Or so I think. Without going into much detail about how I came to this
conclusion, I'm going to explain what I mean by this.

Some companies do bad things like destroy forests and ignore human rights.
But the individual people within these companies are just doing their jobs,
as part of this big exploitative machine. This organizational structure
wasn't invented with the goal of making it harder to punish people for doing
these bad things; it came about because people didn't want to admit that they
were contributing to such bad things
(and also a lot of other reasons, of course).

When the people running a company or other organization decide to keep secret
some news that will make it look bad, they're not really worried about their
customers and so on will think; it's more that they don't want to believe
themselves that the news is true.

If a civilized protest is going on but the head of police (or whoever) decides
to break it up and to prevent the press from seeing it, it's not really
because he's afraid about what other people are going to think about the
protest; it's because he doesn't want to think about the protest himself.

When the police prevent the press from seeing what is going on at the protest,
it's not really because the police are worried about what the public will think;
it's because the police don't want to be reminded of the protest.
(And it's because they're following orders and a bunch of other reasons too.)
