title: Jobs
-----------------------------------------------------------

I'm usually available for consulting on assorted computer things.

It sometimes goes like this. You have an idea as to how we could use
fancy data to do something that seems like magic, and I try to articulate
it less magically, such that I can get a computer to do it. You probably
have some intuition as to how the thing will work (even if you don't realize
it), so I might ask you how you think the magic would work. In any case,
I wind up writing up the magic as nonmagical but possibly complicated
mathematical function. Then I look for numbers that I can plug into the
inputs of the mathematical function. These numbers might start in a form that
doesn't look like numbers, such as [scans of paperwork](/!/parsing-pdfs/).

For example, here's what I did when some people had me make their fraud
investigations more data-driven. First, I learned about their present
investigation practices. Next, I learned about some suspicious activities
they look for, and wrote these activities as mathematical functions that
needed certain numbers as inputs. I also learned of many relevant documents
that they had. Conveniently, most of these documents were written in English.
Inconveniently, none of these documents were written in Computer. So my last
step was to determine the various number inputs to the mathematical functions
based on the words that I saw in the reports.

If that example sounds like what you have, I can probably help. On the other
hand, I often do things that seem *completely different*, so I can probably
help even if that doesn't sound at all like what you have. Also, people
sometimes say I do "data science", but other times, they call it something
*completely different*. If you are unsure as to whether I can do your project,
I suggest that you contact me anyway; if I can't do it, I can probably find
someone else who can.

[Email me](mailto:_@thomaslevine.com) to inquire.
