title: Things I want to do
description: Some things that might be more exciting than sleep

## Software things for other people

* Music for Roman's company
* Wetlands information system for Scott and the Gulf Restoration Network

## Letterpress and computers

* California case keyboard
* More [letterpress-printed data](/!/print-formaldehyde)
* USB stenotype

## Ergonomicsy studies

* Something with Remedy Interactive's data
* [Wrist cracking](https://github.com/tlevine/wrist-cracking)
* Eye-screen distance as the primary concern in body posturing,
    perhaps using a camera to measure eye distance and REBA for
    the rest of the body posture
  * [My answer to a related question](http://www.quora.com/Ergonomics/What-should-be-the-distance-between-computers-and-human-eye/answer/Thomas-Levine-2?__snids__=114332382&__nsrc__=1&__filter__=all)
  * I previously started on a larger-than-I-want-to-do study
      on this and other things, and
      [this](https://gitorious.org/tlevine/casual_computing/source/42a9fe2ed6a2e54667172ef119e9a5d39f04ee24:literature_msd.tex)
      is as far as I got.

## Software things that nobody cares about

* Parser for grammars that describe grids, so we can parse spreadsheets
    more formally
* A way to search spreadsheets that considers their tabular structure

## Learn about earlier peoples
I generally wonder why people do things. And I think I want to know
what to do with myself. Maybe I can learn a bit about this from history.

Francis says that we're just like the Romans. And like the Romans,
we have a republic that will turn into a dictatorship. I want to know
what daily life was like for different people in Rome and what to do
to cope with the rise of a dictatorship.

The International Museum of Slavery reminds me to think about this
topic that I never really studied much. People are stolen and made
to work for other peoples with little compensation. Slavery continues
now, just under a different name. So I want to learn about how the
slave trade worked and what sort of people took part and why and how
to cope with it.

## Kids
I want to learn how to interact with young children of various ages.

## Other
I want to make remote-controlled hot air balloons.
