title: Wrist cracking
--------------------------------------------------------
[[!meta description"I define a term that I invented"]]

I use the phrase "wrist cracking" to describe a motion that people
make with their arms, often after typing or mousing at computers.

## The motion
I'm going to describe how I see the motion in myself because
I'm spending a few minutes just looking at my wrist and trying
different things. I notice several people doing the same sort
of thing, but I haven't studied anyone else's wrists as closely
as I've studied mine.

I usually start with *rotations* of the hand, wherein I flex/extend,
pronate/supinate and deviate my wrists in order to trace a circle
with my fingertips.

<!-- XXX Clip of video with rotation -->

I stop rotating when my hand is  pronated, slightly extended, and
ulnar deviated wrist. Next,
I extend the hand further and lessen the lateral deviation.
Finally, I lessen the extension of the hand and medially
radially deviate the hand.

<!-- XXX Clip of video with the part that makes the sound -->

I tend to repeat this whole process a few times, separated
by full rotation movements.

If the muscles are very tense, I can produce the sound with very
little movement. And if the muscles are very relaxed, I need more
movement to produce the sound. I sometimes flex or extend my thumb
or flex my fingers, especially if the musles are more relaxed.

<!-- XXX Clip of video with thumb -->

I think that the muscles need to be very tense for this phenomenon
to occur, and the extra movement and thumb positioning provides the
extra tension.

Here's a video. I didn't remember which was the ulna and which was
the radius, so I referred to ulnar deviation as "lateral" deviation
and radial deviation as "medial" deviation. (This is accurate if the
hand is pronated, which it pretty much always is in the video.)

<video src="http://big.dada.pink/wrist-cracking/wrist-cracking.webm" class="wide" />

It appears that not everyone can make this motion, even when given
these directions. So you might not be able to do it yourself.

## Hypothesis as to why it feels good
What happens, I think, is that the finger extensors and finger flexors
both activate at the same time, opposing each other. Perhaps some other
muscles tense too. When the crack sound occurs, these various tensed
muscles relax. If I make the motion but don't make the sound, the
relaxation is less sudden.

## My discovery of this phenomenon
My wrists started cracking when I was 12 years old. I rather
distinctly remember the night that it suddenly started happening;
it was at the beginning of seventh grade, and I was working on
some social studies homework, probably late at night. I was typing
my homework at my computer. It was either during the night or the
next day that I noticed that my wrists cracked.

If I look around on old hard drives, I might be able to figure out
the exact date that this happened and the specific homework that
I was working on and maybe even the undo history!

## Other literature on the topic
Ever since my wrists started cracking, I've asked and looked for
information on this phenomenon and have found nothing.

## Related work
The main reason I'm defining wrist cracking is so that I can talk
about a study that I'm doing on it.

* knurko
