I've been working on getting information from Delaware,
which might involve getting around rate limits based on
IP addresses. Well I've actually already written a
[system that completely works](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/delaware),
but I haven't run it yet because I'm scared of Delaware.
Here I explain how the computer stuff works and why I'm
scared of Delaware.

## How I would get the data
I have written a program that makes lots of requests to the
website to gather the data. Once someone installs the program,
he doesn't really need to pay attention to it.

The program is designed such that many different people at
different IP addresses can run the program and coordinate their
downloading. This way, no single IP address needs to make very
many downloads. The only purpose for this design is to get around
limits per IP address, in case such limits exist.

This program might be better thought of as two programs:
A "worker" and a "manager". The "worker" runs in the background
on many different computers and receives instructions from the
manager program that is running on my server. The manager tells
each particular worker exactly which parts of the website to
download; the manager coordinates all of the workers such that
they download different parts of the database and stay within
their per-IP-address limits.

If there are no per-IP-address limits, I can just disable
the rate limiting and run the whole thing from one IP address.
If I discover that these limits do exist, I'll need more
IP addresses; in such a case, I would ask a bunch of people to
install and run my program. I think I would need the program
to be running on about 1,000 different computers to have a
good result. (The exact figure would depend on the rate limits.)

## Why Delaware might pursue legal charges
I have written a program that makes lots of requests to the
website to gather the data. Other people have done this before,
but they have run into the following issues.

* The website blocks their IP addresses.
* Delaware sends threatening letters to them.

On the other hand, there's no obvious indication on the website
that Delaware would mind if I got all of the data. In particular,

* There is
  [no robots.txt file](https://delecorp.delaware.gov/robots.txt)
  to indicate which pages should and should not be accessed
  automatically.
* The website doesn't mention conditions that one must agree
  to in order to use the website.
* Web requests can contain a "user agent" field to indicate
  what program is downloading the data. Some websites block
  requests from user agents that don't look like web browsers,
  and the Delaware site isn't doing that.

More detail on user agents: For web browsers, they usually
look something like this.

    Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; MSIE 9.0; Win3.11; N; Trident/4.0)

I set the user agent to this.

    https://pypi.python.org/pypi/delaware

That's a webpage that has documentation about the whole system
and has my contact information. I did not get blocked even though
I was using this user agent.

## Some specific numbers
The way I've written the program, I need to download 16 million
files in order to get the full database. This ordinarily shouldn't
take very long, but it will if the website limits how much a
particular IP address can download.

I have heard two figures as to how many files a particular
IP address may download: (1) A few hundred, and (2) 3,000.
I don't know what the timeframe is, like whether it's 3,000
per hour, 3,000 per day, or 3,000 ever. I haven't hit any
limits myself.

I asked Delaware what limits there are on accessing the data,
and they
[said](delaware-questions)
that there are none.

Given the scale of the downloading, Delaware might claim that
this is some sort of attack. They might claim that I have a
"botnet" under my control, which would make me sound evil.

They might also claim that I am performing a distributed
denial of service attack. This claim would be unreasonable
as well because I wouldn't download things quickly enough to
take down their site, but they could say this anyway.

## Delaware's potential interest in keeping the data private
There are many ways to get company registration data from
Delaware. I am using the General Information Name Search,
which provides minimal information and doesn't cost money.

If I want to get more information, I can buy information on
a specific company for
[$10 or $20](https://delecorp.delaware.gov/tin/FAQ.jsp),
depending on the information.

Alternatively, I can buy a subscription to
[one of these services](http://corp.delaware.gov/directwebvend.shtml)
that gives me all of the data online. It sounds like these services
would also be much more convenient because they wouldn't require me
to make separate purchases for separate companies.

And there are some
[other](http://www.corp.delaware.gov/remoteagts.shtml)
[forms](http://www.corp.delaware.gov/faqs.shtml)
of access that I don't fully understand.

I'm not really sure how this all works, and Delaware's
[answer to my question](delaware-questions)
about this wasn't helpful. But if it does work this way,
I suspect that various vendors purchase subscriptions on the data
from Delaware and then sell the data to companies. If this is the
case, Delaware might be reluctant to release the data because these
companies might not want to buy the data anymore.

## Thoughts from people

* Does the parallel versus series downloading matter?
* If this is for revenue purposes, it might be an abuse of administrative fees.
    Look into how the law works.
