I recently visited [Kesselberg](http://kesselberg.info/).
A bunch of people live virtually without money on the scraps
of treasure that capitalism discards.

It feels like the weekend every day. That is, its relaxed
and calm and generally great, but it does have the same level
of annoyingness you'd find anywhere else. I love that people
are managing to live rather happily with pretty much no money.

## Not business
It was an amusing place to take a conference call for a
[World Bank](http://worldbank.org) project. The general vibe
I got at Kesselberg was one of intense relaxation and laziness.
If you're just trying to live and not worrying about career and
impressiveness and saving the world, life is pretty easy.

It felt wrong not to be completely relaxed and carefree there.
I was supposed to be working on two paid projects
(on my computer, remotely, for clients in the United States)
while I was there, but I found it hard to do very much work;
it felt very unnatural to look at screens or think about computers.

It might be that computers are inherintly a bit stressful.
Hardly anyone uses
computers or cell phones there, except for a couple of kids who
sometimes watch YouTube videos.

Having any business meeting
would have felt pretty wrong already, and World Bank's values
clash way too hilariously with Kesselberg's.
It was also pretty fun to imagine how colleagues
would react if I told them that I was in an illegally
inhabited place that is less "developed" in some sense.
(By the way, if you are one of those colleagues and are
reading this right now, I'm curious to hear from you.)

## Grown-up hackerspace
Anarchist communities like Kesselberg might be what hackerspaces
become when they grow up. There's a wood shop and a clay studio and
a music space and who-knows-what-else. The people who do use computers
think about free software and stuff. And all of the buildings there are
wonderful hacks, likely constructed of the fruits of scavenging.

## Range of people
The variety of people who decide to live in a place like Kesselberg
is interesting. They all want a quiet place, but for different reasons
that I don't fully understand.

I think they mostly don't really plan for the future. While some have
lived there since the beginning of Kesselberg (like 15 years?), most
travel a lot. And probably the ones who have lived there for a while
still travel a lot.

Many are very frustrated with the dominant governments and some probably
have some deep mental pain of some sort.

People there spend very little money and thus don't need to earn very
much money. I imagine that some people went this route because they never
managed to make very much money.
