People Tweeted at me a lot yesterday about things that excite
me in the ways that they probably thought it would.

* data data
* contest
* ?
* addresses?


## Open data open data
A conversation started around studying how people use websites
that let you download spreadsheets (open data catalogs).
[This writing](http://govfresh.com/2014/07/time-open-data-open-data/)
sort of prompted the discussion, and Luke eventually asked if anyone
wants to
[do something](https://twitter.com/lukefretwell/status/497379906175524864)
around this topic of study.

It would be easy for me to look at
[all kinds of things](/open-data/)
on this topic, but I still don't manage to get myself to do very much.
I get the feeling that
[nobody cares](/dada/searching-data-tables-better)
very much about any of the stuff that I'm doing; they're only pretending.

Well actually, that's not true;
some people like that I am confirming what they already think, which
is that this openly open openness is nebulous hype and that nobody has
any idea what is going on.

## Related projects
I [alluded](https://twitter.com/EllieAsksWhy/status/497277750466863104)
to a related thing that I'm vaguely working on. I figured that a decent
source of information about how these open data sites are used would be
the web server logs for these websites.

I've in fact been sitting on [datahub.io](https://datahub.io) server logs
for some time. I have many ideas of interesting things I could do with them,
but I still don't do any of them. I don't think people care that much, I'm
certainly not going to get paid, and I could just
[sleep](/dada/sleeping) instead.

Or I could work at
[a tenth of minimum wage](https://twitter.com/thomaslevine/status/497272565770231808)
to collect [data](http://usodi.org/2014/08/01/openaddresses)
for fancy innovative businesses that are going to save the
world by making lots of money and being more important than me.

## Why do people get excited about this stuff?




i don't think anyone cares



Some people get big and important in this openly open openness nonsense
by acting big and important
(govlab, okfn, code for aerica)
but I don't think it makes  them any happier





socrata people say they're interested in helping me with thiss
stuff, but it never happens.


https://twitter.com/EllieAsksWhy/status/497360232356802560


https://twitter.com/thomaslevine/status/492618422359187456
https://twitter.com/thomaslevine/status/497272565770231808
http://usodi.org/2014/08/01/openaddresses




I've always heard people complaining about how they want to
do something important at work but can't because of the bureaucracy
or whatever. I decided at some point that if silly things were
preventing me from doing something in an organization, I'm better
off giving up so that I have time to sleep and to do something
important somewhere else.





Rather than fixing things, I like to make them more hilarious.
strata
risley toilets





I went to
Open Knowledge Festival
for the first time last month, and I found it to be the most
stressful thing I'd done in a while. The previous similarly
stressful thing was
Transparency Camp.
Do you see the pattern here?

All of the frustrating things I describe above are very present
when you get a bunch of people together to be open about openness.



I don't really care about fixing government or saving the world,
/dada/datakind-is-kind/

and I don't usually like talking about computers.
/dada/learning-data-stuff/

I like being around people who make me feel nice, and the people
who care about open openness sometimes do this, but I don't like
the pressure to talk about open openness.






Bigger people try to feel important by organizing smaller people
into projects under a big name. Smaller people who are looking
for some direction and purpose in life get sold on the open openness
(or whatever the trendy thing is). Then they decide that they need
to save the world with the open openness, so then they devote their
lives to one of these projects for bigger people.

The bigger people don't get much more important, and the smaller
people don't really done much for the world, but both groups try to
convince themselves that it was worth it.

Actually, that's wrong; people probably do get what they wanted out
of whenever they're doing, but the game that I describe above makes
everything more stressful than it needs to be. And I don't want things
to be more stressful; I'd rather have time to sleep.

