[[!meta title="Sleeping"]]
[[!meta description="I like sleeping."]]

I recently noticed that I *really* like sleeping, enough
that I think of it as a major motivation in life.

My favorite feeling in life might be the one that comes
after I wake up from a nice sleep to sunlight, non-extreme
temperature, and generally pleasant surroundings. I'm pretty
sure that the surroundings need to be pleasant while I'm
sleeping too, but the feeling is more apparent when I'm awake.

## How to sleep
I seem to know some tricks to sleeping that other people don't.

### Sleeping for a long time
There are some tricks for if you want to sleep for like a day
straight.

Fill up several bottles of water, and leave them by your bed.
This way, you won't go thirsty for days.

You will still have to pee, so be careful not to wake up too
much when you do that. Get up as soon as you feel the need to
use the toilet, but be otherwise slow about it. That is, get
up slowly, walk slowly, don't open your eyes, open doors slowly, &c.

In order not to feel the need to move quickly, it helps for
the rooms to be of comfortable temperature and texture. That is,
surfaces should be nice to walk on and not to cold, and the air
should be warm.

If the surfaces aren't this nice, you can keep some slippers and
a sweater near your bed. But then you have to put those on, so
you need to be really careful not to get to excited by in process.

### Strategy
If I'm too tired to do something or otherwise not in the mood to
do much else, I sleep. This way, I wake up sooner and am thus able
to do the thing I wanted to do. Or some other nice thing.

It seems like whether I nap during the day depends mostly on whether
it's socially acceptable. That is, I'll nap at home, probably at my
office, maybe at someone else's office, and probably not in any more
public of a place. I'll probably nap in a park if I see other people
doing it as that indicates that it's safe and accepted.

### Hearing protection
Things are loud in America, (and not in all countries!) so I have
[earmuffs](/!/earmuffs/) and will soon have custom ear plugs.
I usually won't try sleeping in a place where I need hearing protection
for safety purposes, but I sometimes sleep in places that are loud
enough to be annoying for sleeping. And I'll wear hearing protection
there.

My dorm room for the last two years of college was quite loud. The two
main noise sources were the radiator and a fan in the courtyard of the
building that blew air out of a window. I think it was the boiler room.
I usually wore my earmuffs to bed to deal with this, though I sometimes
took them off eventually in order to lie on my side.

## Sleeping without a bed
I always try to find a a **pillow**.
When I'm sleeping on my back, the pillow needs
to be a bit less that two inches tall, I think. It needs to be more
like four inches tall if I'm sleeping on my side. I usually use
books, sweaters, jackets just because they're easy to find and
adjust. Bricks are quite nice if you can find one of the perfect
size.

To check whether I've sized and adjusted my pillow appropriately,
I try to snore as I adjust the pillow; if I manage to snore,
I adjust the pillow until I can't snore.

If it's light where I am, I **cover my eyes** with sweater or
shirt or something. I particularly like large, soft, sweaters.
I use the body of the sweater for the pillow, and I wrap the
sleeves around my eyes.

I also like to **cover my hands**, especially in the winter, because
it doesn't feel nice when they get cold, dirty, or dry.

I don't like sleeping bags because I haven't found one that
feels nice; I'd rather use a bunch of blankets, even if I'm
in the woods. (Blankets seem to work better than jackets;
guess they insulate better.)

### If it gets cold
If I don't have many blankets, it might get cold at night.
Here's how I deal with that.

If I'm entirely too cold when I go to bed, I'm just screwed entirely,
so I'd better do something about that right away. If it's just my feet
that are too cold, it's not as bad; I warm up my feet with a blanket or
in some water. I find it particularly unpleasant when my feet feel like
they have been sweating (and they're dry now, but there are still oils
on them). I've found that this feeling goes away after I warm my feet
up in a blanket. I still prefer taking a shower, but this is nice to
know for when showers aren't available.

The coldest time of day is right before sunrise, when your part
of the earth has gone the longest since receiving sun. If you wake
up near this part of the night, you just need to last a bit longer.
When I don't have a real bed, I often wake up near this time of night.

conduction

bed position

blanket between floor

sleep surfaces

### Postures
Let's talk about three categories of posture and how I accomplish
each of them, especially when I don't have a bed.

I think I fall asleep fastest when I start out with **lying on my side**.
To do this comfortably, I like having an appropriately sized pillow for
my head, an even larger thing to put the higher of my arms on, and
another thing to put the higher of my legs on. If I don't have a thing
for the arms or the legs, I think I spread out my arms or legs,
respectively. I also sometimes let my arm fall towards the back of my
body; that is, laterally rotate my arm.

  * Semi-supine
  * Lying on your side without your hips hurting


## When I do have a bed

* King size blanket, regardless of what size of bed it is

* Mouth above stomach

I have wool blankets because they're small and easier to carry.
Otherwise, I don't have major preferences about blankets

## Broader sleepiness
When I say the word "sleep", I often mean things that might
not be literal sleeping, like lying in the grass or sitting
in a living room.

I seem a bit less interested in career-type things than
other people and often say that I want to retire.

I was in Oakland, California between May and November
of 2013. Everyone (or so it seems) has potluck dinners on Sunday
nights in the Bay Area, so I was of course at
[Matt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Mattsenate)'s
potluck dinner with other people I knew from
[Sudo room](https://sudoroom.org/). A few of us stayed overnight and found
ourselves sitting around the kitchen on a Monday. And
that was odd.

Someone asked, "**Are you all striking because BART isn't?**"
([Bay Area Rapit Transit](http://www.bart.gov/)
workers had been considering a strike.)

One of us had just quit his job, another has never had a
real job, another had a real job that she didn't have to
go to a place for, and I was working part time.

**Yes**, we're on strike against boring work! Or we're just retired,
because work is too much work.
