

## The only way to acquire lots of money is to steal it.
Business and money started to make a lot more sense to me when I
started thinking of it all as institutionalized robbery.
Well maybe I only mean "big business"--the sort of business that
people mean when they talk about "business".

By definition, most people make a typical amount of money.
(In the United States, I think this is something like $20,000 per year.)
Some people and businesses make way more than that; how does that
happen? The typical explanation is that they are providing lots of
value, but that's sort of a tautology because we might define value
as the amount of money that people will pay for a thing.

So here's how I think about it. If you want to make lots of money,
you have to either steal a tiny bit of money from lots of people
or assist other people in stealing tiny bits of money from lots of
people. Governments other monopolies steal tiny bits of money from
people in forms like taxes, high telephone bills, and overpriced
sugar water. These entities pay good money to hire management
consulting firms, purchase enterprise software, and run fancy
marketing campaigns; these industries make decent money because
they are working for the people with lots of money.

Even though these companies and other entities are making good money,
most of the people working for them aren't doing especially well.
Remember, business is all about stealing; to do well in business,
you steal money from your customers, but you also steal various
forms of free labor from lots of people, including your employees.
This can take such forms as "community" stuff,  low-paid entry-level
work,unreasonable feelings of committment to the company, and a supposed
social mission of the company. These are all ways of getting employees
to work for less.

## Stealing is fine in small doses
It's unfortunate that "steal" has a bit of a negative connotation;
I wanted a word for "take without giving something in return", and
it was the only one I could come up with. You see, to say that we
shouldn't steal at all would be to question our existance.

We don't really make our own food, for example; trees grow our food
for us, and we're okay with not giving them much back in return.
And the trees don't make the food out of nothing; the energy comes
from the sun, and the trees don't have a moral obligation to do much
for the sun. The sun's energy comes from destroying mass, and it
doesn't feel obligated to give anything back to the hydrogen atoms.
It's turtles all the way down.

As far as I know, humans (and all species on Earth) have been stealing
in small doses since they've been around. We eat things that we see
lying on the ground, we pluck things off of plants and eat them, and
we even hunt animals and then eat them. And other things steal from us,
forming any number of wonderful cycles that you might have read about
in a textbook.

It's totally fine to steal if we let things replenish after we steal
from them. Conversely, we should let things steal from us as long as
they do it in small doses.

## How this informs my work
I don't think there is any work that pays decently and is fulfilling.
According to what I say above, in order for something to pay decently,
you need to work for a company takes part in robbery, and you need to
be better at stealing from the company than your colleagues are. I can't
imagine this being fulfilling, and I haven't managed to find any such
work that is fulfilling either.

So here's how I approach paid work. I do not seek work, and I do not
partake in inconvenient [application](/!/applications/) processes.
I take work only if it's easy and it pays enough that I won't have to
work for a while

Why do I do this? First of all, I like
[sleeping](/!/sleeping/). Secondarily, I'd rather be playing with my
own toys or  than doing any work that would pay money. And third,
given how much money I spend (about $20,000 per year), I think it's
a lot easier to find ways of spending less money than it is to work
more and make more money.

The exception is if I were to get paid to do something that I'd do for
free. And I mean I would *really* do it for free. Like, if I were starving,
I would choose to do it rather than taking a job. But I think it's mostly a
myth that anyone actually pays decent money for this sort of stuff.

## If you don't have much money
Human rights are granted only to people with money. (Perhaps this applies
only to the United States and only in recent times.) In order for me to
stay sane, I thus want some trust that I'll have ample money for the
forseeable future.








If a business isn't aren't paying very much, it's because they don't care
you, by definition. (That's how capitalism works.) So if you're not getting
paid very well, you shouldn't have much respect for your employer.
