> <div style="font-size: 300%;">Open data?</div>

For the past few years, I've been hearing a lot about "open data".
I was apparently even an expert in open data even though I didn't
really know what it was. So I started going to various repositories
of open data, downloading all of the data, and looking at what they
contained.

(plot of dataset counts by site)

With hardly any effort, I had amassed tens of thousands of datasets,
I quickly realized that nobody had any idea what was in these datasets,
so I started making tools to understand what was in them.

Before I talk about these tools, let me explain why nobody knows what's
in these datasets. Also, keep in mind that "dataset" is usually a fancy
word for "spreadsheet".

(slide)

How do we figure out what's in a bunch of spreadsheets today?
We could manually look at every cell in every spreadsheet,
but this would take a long time.

(slide)

Many "open data" guidelines provide direction as to how a person
or organization with lots of datasets might allow other people
to use them. At a basic level, many guidelines suggest that data
be available on the internet and under a free license; at the other
end of the spectrum, guidelines suggest that data be in standard
formats accompanied with assorted metadata. These guidelines put
responsibility on the publishers of data to do certain things when
they publish data. This can be a lot of work, so it's unreasonable
for us to expect this to happen for anything other than the most
important of datasets.

(slide)

% Many groups have developed standard schemas for particular sorts
% of data. examples (cite stuff) RSS, Yelp, other CfA, geojson

This is helpful when different organizations have similar datasets.
For example, this can work if multiple bloggers are publishing blog
posts or if multiple cities are publishing restaurant inspection results.
It still puts a burden on the publishers of data.

(slide)

% Graphs and stuff
% Even if we have the most perfect graphs about each separate spreadsheet,
% we won't have time to look at them all; we need to narrow down
% the spreadsheet base before we look at them

(slide)

In practice, I find that people learn what's in a spreadsheet through word
of mouth, without looking directly at the spreadsheet. I know what's in the
various datasets published by the United States Census, but I've never used
any of them myself. I know what's in New York City's tax parcel boundaries
dataset (PLUTO) because lots of people have been talking about it,
but I haven't looked at it myself.
http://spatialityblog.com/2013/04/04/a-modest-proposal-for-nyc-tax-parcel-data/
http://www.codeforamerica.org/blog/2013/07/25/epic-win-for-nycs-open-data-community-pluto-is-free/
And I know that several cities release data about the use of bike-share programs
because people get excited every time this happens, but again, I haven't looked
at any of it myself.

(slides with pictures of people)

The people I meet who know the most about what's in these large collections
of disparate open data spreadsheets are the people in charge of putting them
on the internet in a form that people can use them. 

People like Nicole, Noel, Jack, Chris, Mark (above)
have worked with various organizations (mostly governments) to publish
their data, and they know a lot the many datasets being published by the
organizations they respectively work. If you want to know whether a city
publishes a particular dataset, these are the people you want to ask.

Unfortunately, these people don't have time to serve as everyone's personal
search engine, and there isn't an easy way for them to convey all of this
knowledge to others. Moreover, they only know about the data they've worked
on in their respective governments; they don't know much about other governments.

(slide)

Considering that we're talking about open **data**, I figured that we should
be searching through these data in a **data-driven** way. As I said earlier,
I started downloading lots of datasets and running crude statistics across them.

(slide)

(slide)

(slide)

These "datasets" are mostly in comma-separated values (CSV) format---spreadsheets
without code---where columns are variables and rows are records. It turns out that
most of them are pretty small.

(slide)

(slide)

Many organizations report the number of datasets that they publish, and this number
turns out to be nearly useless.

(slide)

I looked at how people use different features of these data publishing website
software programs. One of these programs is called "Socrata Open Data Portal",
and it has features for making graphs of data inside your browser. If you save
the graph you make, it shows up on the public website, so I can see how people
are using this feature. To make the long story short, it looks like people don't
use this feature very much.

(slide about file formats)

I started looking into the file formats that people use....

(slide about duplication)

other things....



I gradually noticed that it's very hard to search across these spreadsheets.
You can search in a generic web search engine, but the spreadsheets might not
be indexed, and the search might not work that well even if the spreadsheets
are indexed.

(slide of search bar)

You can use the search bars on these various websites, but they usually do a
very naive keyword search. Also, these sites tend to be quite slow.

(slide)

Having assembled a spreadsheet about my spreadsheets, I was quite able to
search through them. Even though I only had metadata in this spreadsheet,
I could do powerful searches because I could create any metadata I wanted.
Here's an example. In my composition of music from spreadsheets and in my
teaching, I often want a dataset whose schema has particular characteristics.
So I collected data about the column types in these various tables and ran
queries like this on my spreadsheet.

(slide)

Here's another issue with using website-specific search bars.

% \subsection{Things that don't exist but maybe should}
% The various tools that I describe above assist in understanding
% individual spreadsheets. What if we have a million spreadsheets?
% Even if we have the most perfect graphs about each separate spreadsheet,
% we won't have time to look at them all; we need to narrow down
% the spreadsheet base before we look at them

% It's like the concept of information retrieval and the-other-thing

% but I think we can take a qualitatively
% different approach to understanding 


% search engine

% stats for search engine (pagerank for spreadsheets)



