[[!meta title="On the study of manipulation and deception"]]
[[!meta description="How I recognize manipulation and deception and then figure out why people are being manipulative and deceptive"]]

## Abstract
Manipulation and deception are often discussed as involving two groups
or persons: the person doing the manipulation and the person being
manipulated. I think of these practices as being more fundamentally
about the controlling person. That is, when person A is manipulating
person B, it is really that person A is manipulating himself or herself;
person A's implicit goal in controlling person B is to validate or to
hide person A's feelings.

This piece discusses how [I](/) identify manipulation and deception
and then figure out why people are being manipulative or deceptive.
I discuss common patterns from various scenarios.

## Relevance
This knowledge can help you to understand people (including yourself),
to recognize mindgames, and to be direct in communication. Moreover,
I hope that it helps you empathise with people who are being mean,
stressful, and rude.

## Why I write this
I am usually quite interested by why anyone acts the way she or he does.
I thought to write this piece after learning from
[Matt Linares](http://matt.microsplash.org/) about
[neuro-linguistic programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuro-linguistic_programming).
I remarked that I pay attention to the
same sorts of things (without having a name for them) but with the
slightly different focus discussed above.

## Contents

1. [Identifying manipulation and deception](identify)
2. [Explaining manipulation and deception](explain)
3. [Three examples](examples) of how I identified manipulation and deception and then explained them
4. [Common patterns of manipulation and deception](patterns): Specific things that you can watch for
6. [Cool things you can do](what-to-do) when you think you understand someone
