[[!meta title="Figuring out why people are being silly"]]
[[!meta description=""]]

## Motivation for silliness
Silliness occurs when it is hard for people to be as they want to be or
to do as they want to do. I'm only satisfied if the desire seems to be a
very fundamental animal/human motivation.

For example, if someone is usually
[consciencious](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Five_personality_traits#Conscientiousness)
but wants to fit in with a group that is particularly unconscienciousness,
the person might start telling himself that he is very unconsciencious;
furthermore he might decide that conscienciousness is bad and that everyone
should become unconsciencious.

Or, if a person is looking for a purpose in life and can't find one, she
might try very hard to convince herself that she does have purpose; also,
she might advise people as to how they might find purpose in life.

Silliness, and grumpiness in general, are aggrevated by other
unpleasant/stressful things, like being hungry or tired.

### Typical life motivations
You probably have some intuition about what people want in life.
(It might just seem like common sense.) In case you think you don't,
you might read what these various fancy people thought.

* Big five
* Erikson
* Kohlberg
* ...

I think that all of these are mostly right if you interpret them
as they were intended to be interpreted.

### Reasons why it might be hard for someone to act on these motivations

* Culture, norms
* Money/power
* Prejudice
* Friend groups
* Sudden changes

### People get angry can't get what they want
Even if people seem to be legitimately angry, there is probably something
more complex going on. For example, lots of people get upset when the
government does stupid things, but people who are involved with activism
seem to be looking for something other than change in the government.
That is, the people who want a change in environmental policy also want

* Food
* A place to sleep
* Homeliness
* Friends
* A purpose in life
* ...

Everyone else wants these things too, but it's harder for some people to
get these things. The people who get particularly about not having one
of these things are usually the ones who are having a hard time getting
the other things.


## Specific things you can do
Silliness can usually be explained with the reasons above, but we still
need to figure out exactly what the reason is. Here are some things I do
as I am trying to figure out the specific motivation for a particular
person's silliness.

These things are general strategies for digging deeper into what's going
on for the person. The section on [patterns](patterns) is organized around
different quirks that are indicative of particular things.

### Pay attention to the questions people ask
There are a lot of possible questions that you could ask as smalltalk, so
even smalltalk might you something. But they're also smalltalk, so they
might just tell you that the people hang around people who make that type
of smalltalk.

"What do you do?" might mean that the person is wondering what she does.
She might be considering changing jobs, she might identify strongly with
her work, and she might be looking for work. This question also pops up
when people are starting their first real jobs; when they're looking for
work, they're wondering what they should do, and when they have just started,
they're wondering what they should do next.

"Where are you from?" might mean that someone is wondering where she is
from. She might be that she wants to see more of the world, and it might
mean that the person identifies strongly with a particular place (probably
her hometown or present location). In businessy settings, this question
might really "What organization do you work for?", and that might mean
that the person identifies strongly with her organization.

"What did you study in university?" might mean that the person is considering
what he should study in university. It might be that he is in university or
starting university soon. I think it sometimes means other things too, but
I haven't figured those out.

### Things that are written about someone were often written by that someone
You can find a one-paragraph "bio" about many persons. These might appear
in a text that the person contributed to or on the website of an organization
that the person works/volunteers/whatever for. The person that a bio describes
is usually also the person who wrote the bio.

Some people have more of a presence on the internet. They may have personal
websites, and they might have written the copy for websites about their
projects and organizations.

GDELT: *He* did it
Mason: She's *big*.
Tom: Indecisive? Does crazy stuff? Pink?

Some things that I notice but haven't come up with an explanation for

"made with <3" on computer sites.

### Ask why people do things

Everyone stops for a moment when you ask the right question.

## Oversimplify everything; look at the big picture
Outrageous simplifications of seemingly complex social situations are
often so explanatory that it's funny.

* power in dorm politics
* heritage, like similarity to parents
* money, student debt, poor growing up, &c.

## People are all easy to read
When people seem very complex and hard to read, it's usually *not*
because they actually are any more complex than anyone else; they're
just not confirming any of your suspicions, possibly because they
are trying to hide something or because they are unsure of what they
think about themselves.

The previous section on oversimplifying

Nobody is much more complex than anyone else

* Fancy/smart/rich people are just as simple
* Common/stupid/poor people are just as complex
* People who have clear answers to everything about them are more complex than that
* People who don't have answers to anything about them are still simple



I love how this works with fancy people
For example,
this guy gets angry and does that thing;
science and other advice doesn't matter.
