[[!meta title="Recognizing when people are being silly"]]
[[!meta description=""]]

## Pay attention when something seems off
I sometimes get an odd feelings about things, and I sometimes try to figure
out what the feelings are and where they're coming from. Pay attention when
you get odd feelings, and you'll eventually start to figure out what they
mean. 

The rest of this piece is only my attempt to organize the various things I
have learned about silliness by paying attention to these feelings, and I am
bound to have missed something. Moreover, paying attention to your feelings
is a good idea in general, even if you're only concerned with boring things
like health and money.

## Silly behavior is about the person being silly
Sometimes, we see a person (or group) trying to manipulate or deceive
another person (or group). Such behaviors are often discussed as
involving two persons: the person doing the manipulation and the person
being manipulated.

The same goes for when a person is being especially rude or angry.
Something triggered the rudeness or anger, but the rudeness or anger
is really about something broader and deeper and a bit more complicated.

When person A is angry at person B and is manipulating person B, it is
really that person A is angry at himself or herself and that person A
is manipulating himself or herself; person A's implicit goal in
controlling person B is to validate or to hide person A's feelings.

## Motivation for silliness
Silliness occurs when it is hard for people to be as they want to be or
to do as they want to do. For example, if someone is usually especially
[consciencious](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Five_personality_traits#Conscientiousness)
and is put in a situation where things are always crazy, that person
might start doing silly things.

### Typical life motivations
You probably have some intuition about what people want in life.
(It might just seem like common sense.) In case you think you don't,
you might read what these various fancy people thought.

* Big five
* Erikson
* Kohlberg
* ...

I think that all of these are mostly right if you interpret them
as they were intended to be interpreted.

### Reasons why it might be hard for someone to act on these motivations

* Culture, norms
* Money/power
* Prejudice
* Friend groups
* Sudden changes

### People get angry can't get what they want
Even if people seem to be legitimately angry, there is probably something
more complex going on. For example, lots of people get upset when the
government does stupid things, but people who are involved with activism
seem to be looking for something other than change in the government.
That is, the people who want a change in environmental policy also want

* Food
* A place to sleep
* Homeliness
* Friends
* A purpose in life
* ...

Everyone else wants these things too, but it's harder for some people to
get these things. The people who get particularly about not having one
of these things are usually the ones who are having a hard time getting
the other things.
