[[!meta title="How to figure out why people are being silly (lying)"]]
[[!meta description="How I recognize when people are lying to themselves and others and then figure out why people are doing that"]]

## Abstract
Some time in your life, you may have seen one person (or group) being
manipulative, deceptive, rude, mean, angry, &c., towards another
person (or group). Such behaviors are often discussed as involving two
persons: the person doing the manipulation and the person being
manipulated.

I think of these practices as being more fundamentally about the
controlling person. That is, when person A is angry at person B and
is manipulating person B, it is really that person A is angry at
himself or herself and that person A is manipulating himself or herself;
person A's implicit goal in controlling person B is to validate or to
hide person A's feelings.

This piece discusses how [I](/) identify such behaviors and then figure
out why people are displaying them. I also discuss common patterns from
various scenarios.

## Definition
The word "lying" isn't quite appropriate to describe these behaviors,
so I usually use the word "silly" to describe the collection of
manipulative, deceptive, rude, mean, angry, &c. that I'm discussing.
More precisely, I consider a behavior to be silly when it involves
a person who is lying to himself or herself and is upsetting another
person in the process.

## Relevance
This knowledge can help you to understand people (including yourself),
to recognize mindgames, and to be direct in communication. Moreover,
I hope that it helps you empathise with people who are being mean,
stressful, and rude.

## Why I write this
I am usually quite interested by why anyone acts the way she or he does.
I thought to write this piece after learning from
[Matt Linares](http://matt.microsplash.org/) about
[neuro-linguistic programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuro-linguistic_programming).
I remarked that I pay attention to the
same sorts of things (without having a name for them) but with the
slightly different focus discussed above.

## Contents

1. [Identifying silly behaviors](identify)
2. [Explaining silly behaviors](explain)
3. [Three examples](examples) of how I identified silly behaviors and then explained them
4. [Common patterns of silliness](patterns): Specific things that you can watch for
5. [Cool things you can do](what-to-do) when you think you understand someone
