## Questions with implicit assumptions
Consider difference between the following questions.

1. Do you have a goal in life?
2. What is your goal in life?

The second question only makes sense if the answer to the first is "yes",
but someone may ask the second question without having confirmed that the
answer to the first question is "yes".

If someone asks a question of the second type without first asking a
question of the first type and I get an odd feeling about the way the question
is asked, it sometimes means that the person wants the answer to the first
question to be "yes".

I think it'll make more sense if I use the specific example above.
If someone asks, "What is your goal in life?", he or she may want to believe
that everyone in the world, or at least everyone worth talking to, has a goal
in life.

### The person's mental model
The person is expecting me to answer with a goal that sounds reasonable.
The odd feeling that I mention above is the feeling that I need to have a
goal in life. I may feel pressure to frame some stuff that I do as a goal
even if I don't think of myself as having a goal. On the other hand, I may
truly have a goal in life, in which case his expectation was right.

If I say in response that I don't have a goal in life, then I don't fit into
the person's mental model about goals. The person might try to resolve the
contradiction by deciding that one of the following statements is true.

* The person's model of the world is inadequete: Life goals are not a
    meaningful way of categorizing people. (The person is least likely
    to resolve the contradiction this way.)
* People can be divided into those with goals and those without goals.
    People in the former group are *better*, and I am in the latter group.
* I really do have a goal, but I am being modest, being a wise-guy,
    under-selling myself, &c.

### Wanting to believe
If the person finds a way of preserving his mental model, the person is
showing that he really wants to believe in this model of the world.
Why might he want that? I can usually explain it as one of the following.

1. He or she has recently come up with a life goal and is hoping that his
    strategy of coming up with a life goal was a good idea.
2. He or she wants to fit in with a group of people who talk about their
    life goals.

It is hard to know whether your mental model is right. (In this case, it's
hard to know whether having a life goal is a good idea.) Also, it is scary
to be following a mental model that you don't know is right. Thus, people
sometimes try really hard to convince themselves that their mental models
are right.

##
* Brain settling, internal judgement
* Sudden, out-of-the-blue phrases are often opposite
    "It's not about the money."
  * When people are defensive about things they might collaborate with
* When people phrase things as people being defensive, it's a bit different maybe
* Person fits everything into a particular mental model
* Being very rational to avoid acknowledging feelings
* Shutting down verbally
