[[!meta title="Asking me questions"]]
[[!meta description="Things you might want to know if you asked me a hard question"]]

People sometimes ask me questions that are far more complicated than I
am in the mood to answer. In such cases, I might still be in the mood
to talk a bit further and to arrive at a question that I am in the mood
to answer. But I might not be in such a mood.

If you have asked me a question and we haven't managed to come up with
a question that I am in the mood to answer, the following page might be
helpful to you.


## Some complicated questions
Here are some questions that seem really complicated to me and some
discussion of how they're complicated.

Some questions refer to complicated concepts.

* What is the difference between ergonomics and data science?
* Do you know computer programming?

It's a lot of work for me to answer these if you won't tell me what
"ergonomics", a "difference", "data science", and "knowing" are.
These are fine if you manage to tell me what "ergonomics",
"data science", a "difference", and "knowing" are. Moreover, these
questions are so vague that I doubt that I could possibly provide
a helpful answer if I tried.

Some questions are quite straightforward but would take a long time
to answer fully. Requests for definitions fall into this category.

* What have you been working on recently?
* What program are you using right now?
* How does this work?
* What is ergonomics?

I can often point you to a webpage that answers your question
reasonably completely, and I may get annoyed if you insist that I
answer it now so you don't have to go to the webpage. You might be
able to ask about something more specific that thus doesn't take
me very long to answer.

People sometimes ask many different questions in quick succession such
that I don't even remember the questions. Here's a made-up generic example.

> What are the practical applications of this thing you're talking about?
> Who uses it? Can I integrate it with my other thing to do stuff?
> What are the main advantages and disadvantages of this thing?
> Can assign it to a thing-a-ma-bob with widgets? Can this thing help
> people who have some particular disability do some particular activity?

I'll probably have forgotten the first question by the time you're on the
third question, and then I'll give up on being able to follow the rest of
the questions. Depending on the context, the individual questions might be
just fine separately.

## My mood
I like when I have [slept](/!/sleeping/) and otherwise been moving slowly
and [quietly](/!/ear-muffs). And I like food and water and other normal things.
Complicated questions spoil this mood rather quickly, especially if
they are spoken quickly, loudly, or with complex grammar.

## What I might do about complicated questions
If we just met and I manage to notice that you're making smalltalk,
I might arbitrarily make the question more specific or respond with
something totally irrelevant.

If I known you for more than a few seconds, I'll probably try to make
it more precise (This might involve asking you something.) or indicate
that the question is too complicated and then give up at answering.

If I feel like not-answering would be seen as wrong, I might give you
a bad answer and be very frustrated.

## Making questions simple enough to match my mood
Consider whether there is a more specific question that you could ask
instead, as it might be less work for me to answer.

Perhaps you are asking the question to lead into some other thing.
For example, someone once asked, "How many dimensions do your data have?"
I asked this person why he asked, and he explained that he wrote a paper
about something that I don't remember right not that had something to do
with data with lots of dimensions.

If you're just curious about something or are just making conversation,
I don't think you'll manage to come up with an alternative that I feel
like answering. If you just want to make conversation, you might look
for something else that I feel like talking about.

If you notice yourself enacting one of
[these fallacies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fallacies),
consider remarking that you are doing that. You can also just stop.

## Making me want to respond to more complicated questions
The easiest thing is, perhaps, to send me the question over
[email](mailto:_@thomaslevine.com). I might compose an answer eventually,
and I'll eventually send you the answer if I wind up composing one.

If you want an answer soon, ask me the question in person, and
offer to write up the answer to the question after I have explained
it to you, and then follow through with the offer.

You might also try feeding me, finding me a nice place to sleep and wait
until after I have slept, moving to a quiet place (if we are in a loud
place), or paying me. The effectiveness of these approaches
seems to relate to their quantity; feeding me more, having me sleep
better or longer, moving me to a quieter place for longer, and paying
me more all seem to help more.

## On the frivolity of answering questions
I find I can get to know people quite well based on the questions they
ask. Similarly, people can find out quite a lot about me based on my
responses to questions, even if they don't "answer" the questions.
(I don't exactly know what I mean by "answer".) I usually treat questions
like this, especially when they seem to be going nowhere.
