Perhaps you are considering a career, maybe in "data science",
maybe in some other form of cyber wizardry, or maybe something
totally different. And perhaps you are wondering what you should
learn, how to get a job, how to market yourself, &c. I have assembled
some advice for you!

## Why do you want a career?
There are all kinds of reasons why the career that interests you would
appeal to you. The nominal reason is often that you want to be able to
afford to live, or at least pay off your student debt. But there are so
many more motivations that I see behind career choices!

You might be looking for a purpose, a way to contribute to the world.
Or you might not care so much about such a purpose and care more about
meeting friends. Or even future mates! Maybe you want to make lots of
money, not just enough to survive, but enough to afford fancy cars and
limousines. Or maybe you actually like doing the thing.

If I were sitting right next to you, we could try to pick apart why
you are interested in this career, and then I might give you advice
that is more specific.

Since you're not sitting next to me, I'm not going to do that now,
but I here are three things to consider.
First, anything that motivates you towards a particular career is real
and totally valid, even if it sounds very unprofessional or childish.
Second, a job probably isn't the easiest way to accomplish those
things you might want out of job. (The exception is making money.)
Third, it is possible that you have found something that you like doing
but need some special status, position, institutional affiliation, &c.
in order to do; in this case, you should question whether you actually
like doing the thing and whether you really need the special status,
as you might be wrong about one of these two things.

## Some tips for people who want to make money
As I indicated above, I think that making money is pretty much the only
good reason to take your career seriously. Here are some things that
took me way too long to learn and might apply to you if you care at all
about making money.

### Pretending
In the real world, everyone is pretending that she or he belongs there and
that she or he knows what she or he is doing. This should explain why everyone
seems to like his or her job and to be making more money than you.

Also, since most people are lying, they probably won't call you out on any lies
that you make; calling you out on your lie will remind them that they are lying,
and they don't like being reminded of that.

### It is okay to produce bad work
I often hear of people trying hard to do good work inside of an organization
that doesn't appreciate their work or makes their good work hard. A cliché
example is designers who advocate for their users so that the resulting product
is useful but repeatedly get shut down by their managers who think they know
better.

Why do you care!? If you have to fight with your manager to do good work,
all of your colleagues probably do too, and that's a lot of fighting. If you
really want to do good work, find another place to work.

I find it much easier to run away from conflict. I would make only light
suggestions, avoid getting very stressed out about the mismanagement, and
make some money. If you really care about doing good design or whatever,
you can quit your job to do that and live off the money you saved while working.

### Be insulted when you are paid anything less than ridiculous wages
My wages have so much less to do with the work I provide than I had
innocently hoped they would. If you decide that your normal rate is
$10,000 per hour and that anything less than $7,000 per hour is absolutely
insulting, then that suddenly becomes reasonable. Okay, maybe it shouldn't
be *that* outrageous.

This gets back to the point about pretending. People don't really know
what a reasonable salary is, so if you act like something ridiculous is
totally reasonable, nobody's going to call you out on it.
Especially in startups.

### Try to work just enough not to get fired and no more
This is an extension of the previous one, and it is especially relevant
when your pay is based on time you worked rather than on the completion
of a project.

I think that working "hard" is more about creating a feeling of comradery,
where a group of colleagues are making sacrifices towards a greater goal;
it doesn't usually change how much is accomplished, and if it does, the
change is usually that less being accomplished.

Even if working harder does improve how much is accomplished, you are
unlikely to be appropriately rewarded for it. Your pay is based on what
seems like a normal amount to pay someone, rather than on what work you
did for the people.

### Profit and greed are the least of motivations in business
People sometimes say that God says that we shouldn't kill each
other and still decide to go to Israel to fight a holy war. Similarly,
people sometimes say that they are in the business of making money and
then hire hip rockstar programmers so they can feel cool.

### People don't necessarily do the work that they say they do
...

I think that much of "data science" is people with advanced degrees who
didn't find jobs in academia but want to feel like they're still doing
"research". It can be really fun to use the fancy stuff that you read in a
paper, but I very rarely manage to find situations where any of the fancy
things I read in fancy books and journals is practical; I think that people
say they need their analysis, science, &c. skills because they want to feel
like researchers, not because it is particularly helpful for the business.

### Do real work for short terms rather than trying to find something that you enjoy and still pays

### Don't apply for jobs.

### The main reason you need "experience" is so you can feel confident when you're bullshitting.

## Why Tom's career advice may be totally irrelevant
The stuff I say above makes perfect sense to me, but other people think
it wouldn't apply to them. I suppose this is the bigger message you could
take from the present writing.

### Different backgrounds
People grew up in all different places, learned different things when they
were young, had different relationships with their families and other people,
have different genes, and so on. It's quite likely that the person giving
you advice was different enough that what he or she did won't always work for
you; moreover, it's not like we can know whether the advice will apply.

For example, some people are especially interested in making money. I find
that these people often came from relatively poor families and are hoping to
provide for their parents or for their (future) children.

### Career motivations change throughout life
Even a single person will have totally different career motivations throughout
her or his (or zir) life.

Various fancy people came up with ideas as to what motivates people.
I particularly like a way of thinking that we attribute to Erik Erikson,
mainly because his name is "Erik Erikson". His father left when he was
young, so he changed his name from "Erik [whatever-his-father's-last-name-was]"
to "Erik Erikson".

In this model, people are looking for eight different things throughout life.

1. Basic trust
2. ...



*I should note that I don't know whether Erik Erikson actually thought this
way; I haven't read much of his writings because they're too dense for me,
so this is just what I get from introductory psychology texts.*

### Why people give advice
Lots of people have no idea how to do what they want to do and want to
feel like they do know what they are doing. Giving advice can reassure
yourself that you are doing something reasonable. For example, if you
think that you should sleep a lot, you might suggest that other people
learn sleep a lot, in order to convince yourself that sleeping really
is a good idea.

Similarly, people often give advice in order to convince themselves that
they are experts. For example, you might give people career advice in
order to convince yourself that you know a lot about career stuff.

I quite enjoy saying outrageous things as if they're totally normal and
am also rather frustrated by how much of the advice I have been given is
totally irrelevant. My career advice [above](#tomscareeradvice) can be
summarized as "Tom used to believe common wisdoms, so he is surprised,
frustrated, and amused when he finds that they are totally wrong."

There are so many other reasons why people would give advice; my point
is that helping you out is the least of the reasons.
If someone is giving me advice, I usually see the advice as advice that
the other person is giving himself or herself (or zirself) rather than as
something that has anything to do with me.

## Conclusion
I enjoying how my career advice is both totally outrageous; while it is
perfectly reasonable to me, it surely doesn't apply entirely to you, and
the places where it doesn't apply might be kind of obvious.

Lots of people give career advice, and while it isn't as outrageous as
mine, I doubt it is any more reasonable.
People have all different reasons why they work, and people come from
all different backgrounds, so it is quite likely that well meant advice
won't apply at all to you.
