[[!meta title="Should I do a computer bootcamp?"]]
[[!meta description="I explain the various benefits of these bootcamp courses so you can decide whether to take one."]]

You may have heard of computer "bootcamps", informal schools that are
structured a bit like university semesters or like continuing education
courses and that teach computer stuff, probably a bit better than universities
do. Perhaps you're even considering taking one!

But they're a lot of work, they take time, they cost money, and your present
knowledge might be too little. Or, you might not know which one
to take. I hope the present writing will resolve some of your wonderings.

Reasons to take a bootcamp course
-----------------------------
I find that people take bootcamps for these reasons.

1. They feel like they need to be doing a thing with a name, rather than
    fiddling around on their computers at home.
2. They want to be pushed really hard, enough that they're stressed-out all
    the time.
3. They want to feel like they are working towards finding a job.
4. They want someone to choose the curriculum for them and to believe that
    the curriculum is a good one.
5. They want to be around other people who are learning computers with them.
6. They want to talk periodically with people who know more about the thing
   they're learning.

Most bootcamps provide all of these, though people usually talk about the
last four and not the first two.

If you want most of these, you'll probably enjoy a bootcamp.

## Worries
Here I address some specific worries.

### Will I be able to I handle the workload?
I have different answers depending on the
[sort of bootcamp](#bootcampbusinessmodels).

A bootcamp that costs money is unlikely to "fail" you, even though they'll
push you pretty hard.

A bootcamp that is all about recruiting will quickly kick you out if your
production drops below spectacular.

I don't really know about university courses. If they're like normal
university courses, I suspect that they are less work than the bootcamps
that cost money but that they might actually fail you if you don't do
suitable work.

### Do I need to learn more computer before I take the bootcamp?
We can see this as two different concerns that have the same answer.

1. Do I know enough computer that I'll learn in the course?
2. Will I get in?
3. Will I be able to find a job afterwards?

I get the sense that most of these bootcamps try to get you generally familiar
with some hip computing practices (POSIX and webby software) and then go on to
something more specific to the course, ("web development", "data science", &c.). 
If just you want general familiarity with computer stuff, you will learn
something, and it doesn't matter which one you take. I don't have any advice
for if you want something more specific.

Whether you get in depends on the
[sort of bootcamp](#bootcampbusinessmodels) and on your background.

**If the bootcamp charges tuition and doesn't do recruiting**, you'll get in.
You might have to apply a few times, but one will definitely take you.

**If the bootcamp does recruiting**, you will only get in if you are already
qualified for the jobs they would place you in.

I don't know how university courses evaluate applications. I imagine that
they consider formal credentials more than the hip startups do, just like
normal university courses. But I don't really know.

### Is it worth the money?
**No**, not even if it gets you a job. I'm dead serious.
(On the other hand, it is less of a waste than college.)

Here's more nuanced answer.

**If you have a really good scholarship**, the course might actually be
worth the money, but you probably wouldn't ask whether the course is worth
the money.

**If the bootcamp charges tuition and doesn't do recruiting**, the tuition will
be expensive enough to account for any resulting salary increases. Moreover,
you'll probably learn a bit faster than usual, but not that much faster, and
not in a sustainable way.

The finances for for **university courses** are more extreme versions of those
for the tuition-funded bootcamps. These courses cost more, take longer, and
provide real degrees that companies sometimes care about. Such courses will
probably allow you to fetch much higher salaries, and the tuition will be even
higher, such that you still break even at best.

**If the bootcamp does recruiting** (regardless of whether it charges tuition),
the course is probably a waste of time. If you get in, you already know enough
to get a job, so you could instead just talk to a normal recruiter and find
your job three months earlier.

I should remind you that money isn't the only thing in life and that a bootcamp
might still be good for you, even though you shouldn't expect it to help you
financially.

## Alternatives
Here are some alternatives that fulfill only some of the above six
[reasons to take a bootcamp course](#reasonstotakeabootcampcourse)

Starting a company/organization/initiative/whatever around making a computer
thing that you want to learn to make can fulfill number 1. And maybe numbers
2 and 3. Lying about your credentials can do similar things.

If you only need number 3, you might read
[Career Advice from Tom](/!/career-advice/) instead. Or talk to a recruiter.

Looking up syllabi from bootcamps and other recommendations of what people
should learn can fulfill number 4.

I notice sometimes that a girl who wants to learn computers dates a boy who
seem to know more about computers (I want to stress the part about *seeming*,
as it might be that the two people are equivalently able and that we think the
boy knows more because of the entrenched patriarchy and whatnot.) and thus
teaches the girl about computers. This probably accomplishes lots of the things
that a bootcamp does. But I don't mean to recommend it, as couples who match
this pattern usually seem unhappy.

Hanging out in an appropriate hackerspace can accomplish number 5.
(I can suggest some if you email me.)

[Tom School](/!/tom-computer-school/) fulfills the last three
and not the first three.

## Bootcamp business models
The business model of a specific bootcamp is related to many of the things
I discussed above.

I think of three categories of business model for these bootcamps.
(It's not like one bootcamp follows only one model, of course.)

The most straightforward thing would be a course with high **tuition**
and has no other revenue source. I get the sense that this is how weekly
courses usually work; you pay $4,000 for 15 weeks or so, just like a
university course. Many three-month courses do cost quite a bit of money
too, though tuition is usually not their *only* source of income.

Most of the three-month courses make money by **referring students to jobs**,
even if they do charge tuition of their students. I get the sense that
this works the same as with other recruiters. And I don't really know how
recruiting works, but I think recruiters tend to get about one-fifth of
a yearly salary for each referral who sticks around long enough.

Some bootcamps charge no tuition at all and make their money from
recruiting. Some bootcamps even pay their students to attend the school.

Many three-month courses combine the referrals with the tuition and pass
some of their referral fee along to the students; they might charge $16,000
tuition for three months, with a $4,000 discount if the student takes a job
from a company that pays the school for the referral.

Some **universities** offer things that could be called "bootcamps" but
aren't. These are instead called "masters" programs or just normal courses
and differ from typical university offerings in they are taught by normal
academic credentials. The ways that universities make money are complicated
enough that I don't really try to understand them.
