I'm trying to break down some subset of contemporary music into an
set of aesthetics onto which I can map plotting elements. Here's my
present thinking.

This is probably a sloppy version of rather elementary music theory,
but I never learned it from a book.

## Outline of a song
A *song* is composed of *verses*. (The count is explained below.)
A *verse* is composed of four *phrases*.
A *phrase* is composed of four *measures*.
Measures have notes and stuff in them, but we stop thinking about
them in this outline sense.

The above outline works only for a certain sort of song, and one obvious
characteristic of this sort of song is that it would be in four-four time.
If I parametrized the outline a bit, this might support more song types.

## Properties of songs, verses, phrases, and measures
These different song components are composed of each other, but each
component also has its own aesthetics that informs how its children are
generated.

### Properties that every component type has
A song has an *absolute key*---the key that the song is "in". All other
components types have *relative keys*, which are the changes in key relative
the parent component. For example, a song in C major could contain a verse
in "I" that contains a phrase in "I" with a measure in "vi". The result
would be a measure in A minor, primarily, and C major, secondarily.
This is used in construction of chords and melodies; notes are selected
such that they are in the appropriate keys.

### Songs
A song has a *structure* of verses.
Verses are categorized based on how they sound musically.
Near-identical verses are given the same category, and each category
is given a capital letter as a name, starting from "A". A song usually
has at least three verses, with at least two different categories.
The structures are typically written like this.

* "AABA": Four verses, the third one being different
* "ABABACA": Alternate between two types of verses, with a third
    type stuck in at the end

### Verse type
The resulting music will have a few *tracks*. (I need a better name for this.)
They are, approximately

* Melody
* Bass/chords
* Harmony (I don't know how this one works.)
* Drums
* Flourishes (other percussion)

Several instruments may be mapped to any track, and the instruments
may change measure to measure. The tracks may also be turned on and
off. But the instruments need to fit into one of the five tracks above.
*The verse-type level is where instruments get mapped to tracks*.
For example, one verse-type might have piano and vocals mapped to
melody; bass guitar mapped to chords; and drums mapped to drums.
Another

### Phrase
A verse is mostly just a collection of four phrases; there isn't anything
special here. That is, there totally is something to put here, but I don't
yet know what.

### Measure
The measure level is where *melody* and *rhythm* gets mapped to track.
Melody can be defined as a sequence of notes, but this has rhythm, so
how do we deal with that? I suggest that this can be accomplished by
applying the following algorithm to each note contained in the rhythm:

1. Check where within the measure this rhythm note starts. Call this
    the "beginning time".
2. Check for the pitch in the melody that corresponds with this time
    in the measure.
3. Take the minimum of the length of the rhythm note and the melody
    note. Call this the "end time".
4. Play the melody pitch for the duration between the beginning time
    and the end time.

The above algorithm doesn't handle glissando, slurs, and other gradual
pitch changes. In order to include them, one could itemize the different
pitch change types, and assign a pitch change type to each rhythm note.

A phrase has a chord progression, and this determines the relative
keys of its component measures. I mention this because it has a name
and I wanted to see how it fits in, but it's better to think of this
as just a feature of the measure; a measure has a relative key, as
discussed above.
