[[!meta title="Sleeping"]]
[[!meta description="I like sleeping."]]

I recently noticed that I *really* like sleeping, enough
that I think of it as a major motivation in life.

My favorite feeling in life might be the one that comes
after I wake up from a nice sleep to sunlight, non-extreme
temperature, and generally pleasant surroundings. I'm pretty
sure that the surroundings need to be pleasant while I'm
sleeping too, but the feeling is more apparent when I'm awake.

## How to sleep
I seem to know some tricks to sleeping that other people don't.

### Sleeping for a long time
There are some tricks for if you want to sleep for like a day
straight.

Fill up several bottles of water, and leave them by your bed.
This way, you won't go thirsty for days.

You will still have to pee, so be careful not to wake up too
much when you do that. Get up as soon as you feel the need to
use the toilet, but be otherwise slow about it. That is, get
up slowly, walk slowly, don't open your eyes, open doors slowly, &c.

In order not to feel the need to move quickly, it helps for
the rooms to be of comfortable temperature and texture. That is,
surfaces should be nice to walk on and not to cold, and the air
should be warm.

If the surfaces aren't this nice, you can keep some slippers and
a sweater near your bed. But then you have to put those on, so
you need to be really careful not to get to excited by in process.

### Strategy
If I'm too tired to do something or otherwise not in the mood to
do much else, I sleep. This way, I wake up sooner and am thus able
to do the thing I wanted to do. Or some other nice thing.

It seems like whether I nap during the day depends mostly on whether
it's socially acceptable. That is, I'll nap at home, probably at my
office, maybe at someone else's office, and probably not in any more
public of a place. I'll probably nap in a park if I see other people
doing it as that indicates that it's safe and accepted.

### Hearing protection
Things are loud in America, (and not in all countries!) so I have
[earmuffs](/!/earmuffs/) and will soon have custom ear plugs.
I usually won't try sleeping in a place where I need hearing protection
for safety purposes, but I sometimes sleep in places that are loud
enough to be annoying for sleeping. And I'll wear hearing protection
there.

My dorm room for the last two years of college was quite loud. The two
main noise sources were the radiator and a fan in the courtyard of the
building that blew air out of a window. I think it was the boiler room.
I usually wore my earmuffs to bed to deal with this, though I sometimes
took them off eventually in order to lie on my side.

The other reason to wear earmuffs or earplugs is if someone else is also
sleeping in the same room and that person is snoring.

## Sleeping without a bed
I always try to find a a **pillow**.
When I'm sleeping on my back, the pillow needs
to be a bit less that two inches tall, I think. It needs to be more
like four inches tall if I'm sleeping on my side. I usually use
books, sweaters, jackets just because they're easy to find and
adjust. Bricks are quite nice if you can find one of the perfect
size.

To check whether I've sized and adjusted my pillow appropriately,
I try to snore as I adjust the pillow; if I manage to snore,
I adjust the pillow until I can't snore.

If it's light where I am, I **cover my eyes** with sweater or
shirt or something. I particularly like large, soft, sweaters.
I use the body of the sweater for the pillow, and I wrap the
sleeves around my eyes.

I also like to **cover my hands**, especially in the winter, because
it doesn't feel nice when they get cold, dirty, or dry.

I don't like sleeping bags because I haven't found one that
feels nice; I'd rather use a bunch of blankets, even if I'm
in the woods. (Blankets seem to work better than jackets;
guess they insulate better.)

### Avoiding getting cold
I only realized how much insulation mattresses provide when I started
sleeping without them. When I'm sleeping in a bed, I normally just need
to pile more blankets on top of me in order to be warm; I don't have to
pile blankets under me because the mattress is already enough insulation.

Floors conduct heat very well, so you'll lose more heat through the floor
than you will through the air, even if you're not using blankets. I normally
just put blankets under me to deal with this, but you could also use a
hammock, sleeping pad, or probably a table with a long tablecloth.

### If it gets cold
If I don't have many blankets, it might get cold at night.
Here's how I deal with that.

If I'm entirely too cold when I go to bed, I'm just screwed entirely,
so I'd better do something about that right away. If it's just my feet
that are too cold, it's not as bad; I warm up my feet with a blanket or
in some water. I find it particularly unpleasant when my feet feel like
they have been sweating (and they're dry now, but there are still oils
on them). I've found that this feeling goes away after I warm my feet
up in a blanket. I still prefer taking a shower, but this is nice to
know for when showers aren't available.

The coldest time of day is right before sunrise, when your part
of the earth has gone the longest since receiving sun. If you wake
up near this part of the night, you just need to last a bit longer.
When I don't have a real bed, I often wake up near this time of night.

## When I do have a bed
I like having my mouth above my stomach because my esophagus hurts less
this way. (This is a normal thing for people with acid reflux.)

I like large blankets, like king size, regardless of what size of bed I'm
using. This way, I don't have to worry about the blanket slipping out of
just-the-right position, and I can cozily wrap myself in an enormous blanket.

I have wool blankets because they're small and easier to [carry](/stuff).
Otherwise, I don't have major preferences about blankets.

## Postures
Let's talk about three categories of posture and how I accomplish
each of them, especially when I don't have a bed.

### Side
I think I fall asleep fastest when I start out with lying on my side.

To do this comfortably, I like having an appropriately sized pillow for
my head, an even larger thing to put the higher of my arms on, and
another thing to put the higher of my legs on. If I don't have a thing
for the arms or the legs, I think I spread out my arms or legs,
respectively. I also sometimes let my arm fall towards the back of my
body; that is, laterally rotate my arm.

If you try this without a bed, you may find that your hip hurts because
your anterior superior iliac spine is pushing into the floor. The trick
is to rotate your lower body (and not upper body) towards the floor such
that the front of your hips (rather than the side of your hip) is
touching the floor more.

### Back
Sleeping on my back is less complicated than sleeping on my side.
I do have a trick for sleeping on my back without a bed. When I lie down
flat on my back, my butt sticks out into the floor. Depending on how
relaxed I am and what I've been doing with my back recently, this is
sometimes uncomfortable.

To deal with this, you just need to rotate your hips up, as you might
do in order to touch your toes. You can bend your knees, plant your feet
on the floor, and assume a semi-supine position. This is sometimes a bit
too much effort to fall asleep while doing, so you can also put your
lower legs on a chair.

### Front
People put pillows in the wrong place when sleeping on their front.
When I stand up, my chest sticks out further than my head. Similarly,
when I lie down on my front, I would like my chest to be higher than
my nose. So the pillows should go on the chest!

## Why do I like sleep so much
It is generally accepted that some sleep is good for most people,
but why is it that *I* like sleep so much? Here are some possibilities.

I seem to be more sensitive to stimuli than most people are, and sleep
usually involves being in a place with unusually low and small stimulati.

I sometimes feel *really* good right after I wake up. Regardless of whether
sleeping (or sleeping *more*) affects whether I feel good after I wake up,
I might intuit that sleep has something to do with me feeling good.
