[[!meta title="What should I do?"]]
[[!meta description=""]]

I'm going to tell you some things I have noticed recently and then see if you
have advice for me regarding what I might want to do (for work or whatever).

## I like work that isn't much work
I have been trying to figure out what makes me like work, and all I have come
up with is that I want not to work. That is, I like work when it pays, isn't
much work (part-time, easy application process, not over-time, &c).

Saying that I like work that isn't much work simply defers the issue of what
I like to do. I like work that gives me time to do things that I want to do,
but what are those things that I want to do?

## The things I like doing
Most of the things I like to do can be seen as indirect manifestations of my
aversion to work and to other stressful things.

For example, I blew dorm politics [out of proportion](/!/risley-toilets) for
the hilarity; I gradually concluded that open data has nothing to do with
transparency and everything to do about
[big money](/!/open-data-is-all-about-money/) and
[hype for hype's sake](/!/searching-data-tables-better);
and my mission to enlighten people to
[musical data analysis](http://fms.csvsoundsystem.com) has
[spiraled](sheetmusic)
[out](eusprig)
[of](geomdoner)
[control](brighttalk).

Some other things can be seen as more direct manifestations of this aversion
to work, such as [this recent (not finished) writing](/!/silly).

The message I see under all of this stuff is that people should do silly things
or do nothing and definitely *not* take anything seriously.

## Do I want to do something good for the world?
Could it be that I want to do something "good" for the world?
Well maybe, but not in the normal sense.

I [seem]()
to like [DataKind](http://datakind.org),
but I'm skeptical that they're saving the world in the way that it sounds like
they are; I mostly just like them because they make me feel
[happy](/!/datakind-is-kind/).

I care something about [open data](/open-data), but only enough that I checked
that it was a waste of time before I decided not to do much with it.

I did quite a bit of work for an
[environmental advocacy group](http://healthygulf.org),
and what I did was apparently quite helpful, but I think it just fuels a silly
quarrel among various players who insist on (bureaucratically) fighting each
other.

And I compensate for all of the good I do for the world is with any of the
[horrible things I do for money](/!/curriculum-vitae).

If there is anything that I want to change about the world, it's that I
want people to [sleep](/!/sleeping) more and work less. And this gets us
back to the original issue of what I should do when I'm not sleeping.

## So what do I do?
It's like I have designed my life such that I don't have to do anything.
I have enough money that I can retire, I have little enough
[stuff](/!/stuff/) that I can move easily, I know enough about
[ergonomics]() that I can make hard work less hard,
and I have
[transferred my consciousness into a computer](/!/geeky-free-software-project/)
such that socializing is much less work.

I suspect that this is much better position than most people, but I still have
no idea of what to do. How funny!

Do you have any ideas?
