## Categories
* Home: I run private things like email.
* NSA: I run things that are mostly public; the credentials are the only private things.
* Remotes for git:
  * NSA (git.thomaslevine.com)
  * GitHub: Redundant git hosting
* Remotes for big files
  * NSA (dadawarehouse.thomaslevine.com)
  * rsync.net: Backups for private things like email
* Clients (phone, laptop, desktop, &c.)

## Common structure
With the exception of phones, the following should be the case for all computers.

Environment variables are such:

* `$USER` is `tlevine`
* `$HOME` is `/home/tlevine`

There should be a `~/git` directory for files that are backed up in git.
It should contain:

* `~/git/profile`: The standard profile configuration across all computers.
    This repository is public.
* `~/git/secrets-${computer}`, where `$computer` is one of `client`, `home`,
    `nsa`, `clients+home` and `all`. This git repository is stored on rsync.net
    in the appropriate user account.

The following links should be set.

* Everything in `~/git/secrets-*/dotfiles/*` should be linked to files in `~`.
* `~/git/profile/profile` and `~/git/secrets-*/profile` should be sourced.

## Uncommon structure
The following directories should be set in home.

* `~/safe` periodically gets pushed (rsync) to rsync.net

The following directories should be set in nsa.

* `~/dadawarehouse.thomaslevine.com` gets served publically over HTTP.
    I should also come up with some backup strategy for this directory.
* `~/git.thomaslevine.com` gets served publically over HTTP. It is also
    the home directory of another user with git access, and it should
    not be used for anything other than my special git thingy.

There are no such special directories for the clients.
