People are reacting suddenly and gradually making a big deal out of something
that and getting stressed about sort of nothing. I step in and spiral it out
of control in order to point tihs out.

This could be an argument or a very directed/scripted/normative conversation.

People are aligned in varying degrees with the topic. Some people feel very
strongly connected to the topic and are unlikely to change how they behave
about it any time soon. Some people take part in it but are frustrated. And
some people stay out of it but are annoyed that it's going on.

I approach with curiosity. These steps, approximately

1. Notice that something's up and get curious
2. Become interested in the topic and begin asking questions and trying to
    understand it
3. Seek out discussion settings that are organized by the people who are
    very involved in the topic and where many people are listening, especially
    people who are less supportive of the fighting
4. Display curiosity, and be open about your ignorance.
  * Ask naive questions.
  * Get confused when you're confused.
  * Accept that you won't fully understand it; rather than trying to
      demonstrate that you understand what they're talking about, admit that
      you don't understand if there's something you don't understand.
  * Ignore the polite cues that you should stop talking or switch the topic.
      * People want to switch the topic because your words clash with their
          mental model, not because you're being rude. 
      * Force people to say explicitly that you need to stop talking; that
          makes it clear that they are suppressing discussion that doesn't
          fit.
