# Journalism-driven data
This is a plot about readership of publications that are hosted on
[Camayak](http://camayak.com/)'s platform. I plotted various indicators
of staff behavior over time.

<video src="http://dada.pink/gastronomification-big-data-talk/journalism-driven-data.webm"
       controls ></video>

## Music

### Time dimension
The time dimension is represented in the music as time.
The music is composed of verses, each verse corresponding to a season.
Each season is broken into four equal parts (approximately 23 days each),
and each verse is correspondingly broken into four "phrases".

We distinguish between the summer season and all other seasons in these ways.

* Chord progression (i v i III versus I V vi IV)
* Presence of drums (off during the summer)

### Staff activity
The commenting on websites and assignment of tasks to writers affects
the main rhythms and the use of drums.
The rhythm for the melody is based on averaged data across all
publications and dates for the particular season. There are two
underlying tracks, and the data affect how fast the rhythm;
one of them gets faster when more comments are written on the
publications, and the other gets faster when more assignments are created.
Similarly, the bass drum turns on when there are lots of comments,
and the hi-hat turns on when there are lots of assignments.

The rhythm is also based on the number of pitches submitted;
measures get more notes added at the end of the measure when
more pitches are submitted. (If a lot of pitches are submitted,
notes eventually get added to the beginning of each measure too.)

Pitches of all notes are based on the data for the particular
publication during the particular 23-day section of the particular
season; pitches are higher when more assignments were created.

## Video
The time dimension also is represented in the video, as the x-axis.
The season's name is shown in text, and the background color changes
to grey in the summer.

The y-axis in the video is the activity generated per day. Activity
per day is plotted incrementally&mdash;in 23-day sections and one organization
at a time. The name of the present organization is written towards the
bottom-left of the screen, and the curve for that organization is shown
in front of all of the other curves.

At the right end of the curves are plotted an alternating circle and
triangle. Their size is proportional to the number of pitches submitted
(circle) and users registered (triangle) for the particular date.

## Interpreting the results
Activity is low during the summers and very low at the beginning and ends
of the song. Low activity during the summers occurs because three of the
publications are student publications, which have much less activity when
school is out. Low activity at the beginning occurs because the
publications had not yet begun using Camayak, and low activity occurs at
the end because we are using data that were exported a couple months ago.

There is a weekly trend of high activity on weekdays and low activity
during the week.

## Source code
Source code is [here](http://dada.pink/camayak-public/). Except for the
data frame, which is unfortunately private.
