# Mailing lists I actually read
I'm think these are the only email lists where I actually read most of the
emails. And I've been on a couple of them for a while; they must be pretty good.

## altkeyboards
I've been on
[altkeyboards](http://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/altkeyboards/info)
since May 9, 2015. It used to be a bit more active, but now it's usually
a few emails per year, all within a few days of each other.
And they're always super awesome.

My favorite incident ever was the controversy that erupted around one
guy's grand vision to spread Dvorak to everyone and to hold computer
manufacturers accountable for producing computers with inferior
QWERTY layouts. He called it "Yes we can Dvorak".

## Next Nature
I've been on [Next Nature](http://nextnature.net) since 2008.
It's crazy and wonderful. The May 2015 issue, for example, is
"a special edition of the Next Nature newsletter entirely dedicated
to the world's first lab grown meat restaurant Bistro In Vitro".

I saw in a Tweet, I think, from someone I went to Type Camp with.
I don't remember who it was, but it was definitely someone I went to
Type Camp with.

## NICAR
I basically only read news that I hear about from investigative journalists.
This means that I read very thorough, insightful pieces on pretty random
topics; they're interesting because of how they do journalism, not because
they're covering something that I especially care about.
NICAR is one of the places I find such pieces.

It's also fun to answer some of the computer questions people ask, but
avoid reading long threads, because people like to pile on with fancy,
complicated, useless answers when a question has already been answered.

## EuSpRIG

