[[!meta title="Recognizing when people are being silly"]]
[[!meta description=""]]

## Pay attention when something seems off
I sometimes get an odd feelings about things, and I sometimes try to figure
out what the feelings are and where they're coming from. Pay attention when
you get odd feelings, and you'll eventually start to figure out what they
mean. 

The rest of this piece is only my attempt to organize the various things I
have learned about silliness by paying attention to these feelings, and I am
bound to have missed something. Moreover, paying attention to your feelings
is a good idea in general, even if you're only concerned with boring things
like health and money.

## Silly behavior is about the person being silly
Sometimes, we see a person (or group) trying to manipulate or deceive
another person (or group). Such behaviors are often discussed as
involving two persons: the person doing the manipulation and the person
being manipulated.

The same goes for when a person is being especially rude or angry.
Something triggered the rudeness or anger, but the rudeness or anger
is really about something broader and deeper and a bit more complicated.

When person A is angry at person B and is manipulating person B, it is
really that person A is angry at himself or herself and that person A
is manipulating himself or herself; person A's implicit goal in
controlling person B is to validate or to hide person A's feelings.

## How to tell whether you're right
## Recognize that you are getting mixed messages
This is probably common sense to a lot of people, but it took me a while
to realize.

Understanding these silly behaviors is all about making sense of
mixed messages. So how am I to know that my understanding is right?

I can ask the person, but that doesn't usually do much for me.
For example, the person might say that he or she is not angry when
he or she really is, or the person might say that he or she is angry
when he or she really isn't. There's a lot more in the response than
a simple "yes" or "no", so you can get a lot of information this way,
but it's usually not enough for me.

The first thing I do is to treat different communication media equally.
People send different messages in different media;
I used to pay attention mostly to speech and writing, but there's also
gait, dress, posture, and activities, among other things. Rather than
checking whether I have interpreted a particular thing properly,
I expect to get different messages from different media, and I try to
interpret all of them.

The second thing is to come up with a model that you *can* test. For
example, it might be that the person gets angry when he or she is hungry.
So just pay attention to the person's anger and to when the person last
ate and see if it's right.
