[[!meta title="How to figure out why people talk one way and act another way"]]
[[!meta description="There's usually a simple explanation, but it can take a while to come up with it."]]

## Abstract
Sometimes people act really mean for no apparent reason. Other times they
say stuff that suggests one thing and do stuff that suggests another thing,
and this can seem cold, rude, &c.

I get very confused and frustrated when this happens; why would someone ever
do this? Did I do something wrong? I can hide my frustration by saying that
the person is just fundamentally bad, that leads to other unpleasant things
because this is never the real reason.

It turns out that there usually is a simple explanation that doesn't require
me to hate the person. Usually, the various bizarre happen because the person
is hiding something from himself or herself.

I remarked that I have a system for noticing this stuff, but I only remember
the different parts of the system when I notice myself using them.
I started writing everything down here in hopes that I might eventually
manage to explain how I do this.

I think that paying attention to this stuff helps me understand people
(including myself),
to recognize mindgames, and to be direct in communication. Moreover,
I think it's how I empathise with people who are being mean,
stressful, angry, cold, manipulative, indirect, or rude.

## Term
When someone is lying to herself or himself and upsetting someone else
in the process, I usually describe the whole thing as "silly". What a
strange choice of words!

As [Caitlin](http://inamerryhour.com/) remarked upon reading an earlier
version of this page,

> It's difficult
> for me to think of the word 'silly' in a pejorative way because I don't
> usually use it to refer to people's unconscious motivations and strategies
> for rationalizing cognitive dissonance, which I think is what you're
> describing.  I use the word almost exclusively to refer to irreverence or
> eccentrically joyous behavior/speech.  The opposite of seriousness.  I
> think irreverence is a vastly underrated quality.  Those data tacos, for
> instance.  That's an example of the kind of silliness I'd like to see more
> of.

I usually don't want want to be around people when their unconscious
rationalizations of cognitive dissonance manifest as mean things, but
I don't see such manifestations as bad or good; they're just things.

Like Caitlin, I consider the data tacos and [data doner](/!/geom_doner)
to be fun, non-serious, silly games. I apply the word "silly" to these
unconscious motivations to emphasize that they're not very serious either.

I use the word "silly" to remind myself that people who are doing horrible
things [don't want to be mean](http://drhorrible.com/). They're just
playing complicated games (without realizing it),
because games are fun and we need something to
do all day. The lengths that people will go to cover up their motivations
are really funny!

I think I took this use of the word "silly" from my friend Dasha a few
years ago, but I only recently figured out what I meant by it and why
I like the word so much.

## Why I write this
I am usually quite interested by why anyone acts the way she or he does.
I thought to write this piece after learning from
[Matt Linares](http://matt.microsplash.org/) about
[neuro-linguistic programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuro-linguistic_programming).
I remarked that I pay attention to the
same sorts of things (without having a name for them) but with the
slightly different focus discussed above: Rather than avoiding being
manipulated, I am interested in understanding why someone would do
something so bizarre.

## Contents
I have divided the piece into a few sections. If this were a paper book,
I would order them thusly.

1. [Identifying silly behaviors](identify)
2. [Explaining silly behaviors](explain)
3. [Three examples](examples) of how I identified silly behaviors and then explained them
4. [Common patterns of silliness](patterns): Specific things that you can watch for
5. [Silliness in groups](groups)
6. [Cool things you can do](what-to-do) when you think you understand someone

Since this is a website, I can give you multiple orders! Here's another
reasonable order. The previous order puts the theory before the examples,
and this one puts the examples before the theory.

1. [Three examples](examples) of how I identified silly behaviors and then explained them
2. [Common patterns of silliness](patterns): Specific things that you can watch for
3. [Silliness in groups](groups)
4. [Identifying silly behaviors](identify)
5. [Explaining silly behaviors](explain)
6. [Cool things you can do](what-to-do) when you think you understand someone
