## Questions with implicit assumptions
Consider difference between the following questions.

1. Do you have a goal in life?
2. What is your goal in life?

The second question only makes sense if the answer to the first is "yes",
but someone may ask the second question without having confirmed that the
answer to the first question is "yes".

If someone asks a question of the second type without first asking a
question of the first type and I get an odd feeling about the way the question
is asked, it sometimes means that the person wants the answer to the first
question to be "yes".

I think it'll make more sense if I use the specific example above.
If someone asks, "What is your goal in life?", he or she may want to believe
that everyone in the world, or at least everyone worth talking to, has a goal
in life.

### The person's mental model
The person is expecting me to answer with a goal that sounds reasonable.
The odd feeling that I mention above is the feeling that I need to have a
goal in life. I may feel pressure to frame some stuff that I do as a goal
even if I don't think of myself as having a goal. On the other hand, I may
truly have a goal in life, in which case his expectation was right.

If I say in response that I don't have a goal in life, then I don't fit into
the person's mental model about goals. The person might try to resolve the
contradiction by deciding that one of the following statements is true.

* The person's model of the world is inadequete: Life goals are not a
    meaningful way of categorizing people. (The person is least likely
    to resolve the contradiction this way.)
* People can be divided into those with goals and those without goals.
    People in the former group are *better*, and I am in the latter group.
* I really do have a goal, but I am being modest, being a wise-guy,
    under-selling myself, &c.

### Wanting to believe
If the person finds a way of preserving his mental model, the person is
showing that he really wants to believe in this model of the world.
Why might he want that? I can usually explain it as one of the following.

1. He or she has recently come up with a life goal and is hoping that his
    strategy of coming up with a life goal was a good idea.
2. He or she wants to fit in with a group of people who talk about their
    life goals.

It is hard to know whether your mental model is right. (In this case, it's
hard to know whether having a life goal is a good idea.) Also, it is scary
to be following a mental model that you don't know is right. Thus, people
sometimes try really hard to convince themselves that their mental models
are right.

##
* Brain settling, internal judgement
* Sudden, out-of-the-blue phrases are often opposite
    "It's not about the money."
  * When people are defensive about things they might collaborate with
* When people phrase things as people being defensive, it's a bit different maybe
* Person fits everything into a particular mental model
* Being very rational to avoid acknowledging feelings
* Shutting down verbally



## Beginning a thought with negation




## Beginning a thought with a very firm statement
Similar to the previous one

When I was in university, lots of people would ask me what my major
was. I'd say it was "ergonomics", and then I'd have to explain
[what ergonomics is]().
One day, I met someone whose major was math. I asked her what math
was and learned that it was "lies". And then I finally realized that
I should ask other people what their majors meant.

One day, I met someone whose major was political science, and I asked
him, just like I'd ask everyone else, what political science was.
He insisted right away that "It is a science!" and then justified that
the stuff he did in class was very scientific. I guess a lot of people
tell him that political science isn't a science. Moreover, I think he
wants to justify that he's doing something real.

## Immediate survival and comfort
Reasonable mysticism and unreasonable other things: Have you eaten?




## Unsolicited confirmation
People do this to convince themselves that they're going to do something
that they really want to do because they really want to do it but they
can't do it because there's something else that's more important.




## Exaggerations to fit in



## Forced speech
Sometimes, 

I recall finding myself in a circle of people where one person mentioned
that he had just quit his job and then everyone except me (literally)
applauded very loudly. That seemed a bit odd. I think that everyone either
had just quit his/her job or was considering quitting his/her job and was
looking for confirmation that he/she was making a good choice.

## Asking lots of questions

attention, recognition, &c.

## Intimate relationships
People in very close relationships (romance, certain business partnerships,
teacher-student relationships, parent-child relationships, &c.) can behave
quite differently from how they would around anyone else.
(Here's a somewhat [extreme and gruesome example](http://www.propublica.org/article/finding-oscar-massacre-memory-and-justice-in-guatemala).)
In such cases, it is often informative to consider the entire group to be
an atomic unit.

When someone gets upset about someone she or he is so close to, that person
is often upset at qualities of herself or himself that she or he sees in the
other person. Also, it is unlikely that one of the persons is being reasonable
and the other one being unreasonable; they are probably both being unreasonable.

Now is there an example that people would be okay with me sharing with the
internet....

## Specific interests

* Dermatologist with good visual memory
* Law student wants to work in comic books (because good and evil)
* Arguing about Palistine



I once conversed with someone who made a documentary about conflict in
Palestine. It was quite apparent that was so enthusiastic/angry about
it and that this was part of why she made the documentary. 


## Closing eyes or looking away
