






## Abstract
Sometimes people act really mean for no apparent reason. Other times they
say stuff that suggests one thing and do stuff that suggests another thing,
and this can seem cold, rude, &c.

I get very confused and frustrated when this happens; why would someone ever
do this? Did I do something wrong? I can hide my frustration by saying that
the person is just fundamentally bad, that leads to other unpleasant things
because this is never the real reason.

It turns out that there usually is a simple explanation that doesn't require
me to hate the person. Usually, the various bizarre happen because the person
is hiding something from himself or herself.



## Term
When someone is lying to herself or himself and upsetting someone else
in the process, I usually describe the whole thing as "silly". What a
strange choice of words!

As [Caitlin](http://inamerryhour.com/) remarked upon reading an earlier
version of this page,

> It's difficult
> for me to think of the word 'silly' in a pejorative way because I don't
> usually use it to refer to people's unconscious motivations and strategies
> for rationalizing cognitive dissonance, which I think is what you're
> describing.  I use the word almost exclusively to refer to irreverence or
> eccentrically joyous behavior/speech.  The opposite of seriousness.  I
> think irreverence is a vastly underrated quality.  Those data tacos, for
> instance.  That's an example of the kind of silliness I'd like to see more
> of.

I usually don't want want to be around people when their unconscious
rationalizations of cognitive dissonance manifest as mean things, but
I don't see such manifestations as bad or good; they're just things.

Like Caitlin, I consider the data tacos and [data doner](/!/geom_doner)
to be fun, non-serious, silly games. I apply the word "silly" to these
unconscious motivations to emphasize that they're not very serious either.

I use the word "silly" to remind myself that people who are doing horrible
things [don't want to be mean](http://drhorrible.com/). They're just
playing complicated games (without realizing it),
because games are fun and we need something to
do all day. The lengths that people will go to cover up their motivations
are really funny!

I think I took this use of the word "silly" from my friend Dasha a few
years ago, but I only recently figured out what I meant by it and why
I like the word so much.

## Why I write this
I am usually quite interested by why anyone acts the way she or he does.
I thought to write this piece after learning from
[Matt Linares](http://matt.microsplash.org/) about
[neuro-linguistic programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuro-linguistic_programming).
I remarked that I pay attention to the
same sorts of things (without having a name for them) but with the
slightly different focus discussed above: Rather than avoiding being
manipulated, I am interested in understanding why someone would do
something so bizarre.

## Contents
I have divided the piece into a few sections. If this were a paper book,
I would order them thusly.

1. [Identifying silly behaviors](identify)
2. [Explaining silly behaviors](explain)
3. [Three examples](examples) of how I identified silly behaviors and then explained them
4. [Common patterns of silliness](patterns): Specific things that you can watch for
5. [Silliness in groups](groups)
6. [Cool things you can do](what-to-do) when you think you understand someone

Since this is a website, I can give you multiple orders! Here's another
reasonable order. The previous order puts the theory before the examples,
and this one puts the examples before the theory.

1. [Three examples](examples) of how I identified silly behaviors and then explained them
2. [Common patterns of silliness](patterns): Specific things that you can watch for
3. [Silliness in groups](groups)
4. [Identifying silly behaviors](identify)
5. [Explaining silly behaviors](explain)
6. [Cool things you can do](what-to-do) when you think you understand someone




## Anger is usually about the angry person.
Sometimes, we see a person (or group) trying to manipulate or deceive
another person (or group). Such behaviors are often discussed as
involving two persons: the person doing the manipulation and the person
being manipulated.

The same goes for when a person is being especially rude or angry.
Something triggered the rudeness or anger, but the rudeness or anger
is really about something broader and deeper and a bit more complicated.

When person A is angry at person B and is manipulating person B, it is
really that person A is angry at himself or herself and that person A
is manipulating himself or herself; person A's implicit goal in
controlling person B is to validate or to hide person A's feelings.

## How to tell whether you're right





## Recognize that you are getting mixed messages
This is probably common sense to a lot of people, but it took me a while
to realize.

Understanding these silly behaviors is all about making sense of
mixed messages. So how am I to know that my understanding is right?

I can ask the person, but that doesn't usually do much for me.
For example, the person might say that he or she is not angry when
he or she really is, or the person might say that he or she is angry
when he or she really isn't. There's a lot more in the response than
a simple "yes" or "no", so you can get a lot of information this way,
but it's usually not enough for me.

The first thing I do is to treat different communication media equally.
People send different messages in different media;
I used to pay attention mostly to speech and writing, but there's also
gait, dress, posture, and activities, among other things. Rather than
checking whether I have interpreted a particular thing properly,
I expect to get different messages from different media, and I try to
interpret all of them.

The second thing is to come up with a model that you *can* test. For
example, it might be that the person gets angry when he or she is hungry.
So just pay attention to the person's anger and to when the person last
ate and see if it's right.

## Paying attention to yourself in general
