title: Sliding Window
description: And the merits of tiny modules
------------

<div>

# Sliding window
I once wanted to iterate over a thing in Python and have access to
more than the current item. I found a few implementations of on
[this webpage](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6822725/rolling-or-sliding-window-iterator-in-python/6822761#6822761),
but it seemed odd to me that I couldn't just import a module for this.

</div>

<div>
So I made the module! I packaged one of the implementations from that
webpage as [sliding_window](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/sliding_window),
which you can get from PyPI like so.

    pip install sliding_window

</div>

<div>
And then I used it like this.

    from sliding_window import window
    for a, b, c in window(range(1,10), n = 3):
        print(a + b * c)

    # 7
    # 14
    # 23
    # 34
    # 47
    # 62
    # 79
</div>

<div>
## The merits of small modules
I factor out small bits of code that I use often and publish them
to appropriate package repositories so that I can more easily reuse
them and so that I can [find them](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/tlevine).

I also wind up making small modules so that I don't have to think about
as much stuff. If there's a big thing I want to make, I separate into
small things, and then I make one of the smaller things. Most likely,
I don't wind up with the big thing, but I still have the most important
or interesting of the small things. (You can call this "iterative development"
if you like.)
</div>

<div>
## The use of standard packaging conventions
Once in a while, I wind up making all of the smaller things. When this
happens, the big complicated thing looks simple because it is just a tiny
package that imports all of the smaller things. By packaging things in
standard modules, I can avoid documenting my procedures for installation
and whatnot; if my packages follow conventions, I can figure out how my
own stuff works by reading ordinary Python documentation.
</div>

<div>
## In summary
1. [sliding_window](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/sliding_window) exists.
2. Write tiny modules.
3. If they're Python modules, publish them to PyPI.
</div>
