1. Me
  * Computers, ergonomics, "data", &c.
  * I went to Prishtina for SFK, and I'm flying from there to USA
      in a week, so I took a detour to Tirana
  * Why I can whimsically spend two weeks in the Balkans
    * I don't have much stuff, and I don't have kids or anything,
        so I don't need to be anywhere in particular.
    * I don't care very much for work (more on that later).

2. My views on work: 
  * Work is overrated
    * Working more doesn't make more money. I know people who work a lot
        and a little and who make a lot and a little, and these two factors
        don't seem to matter much.
    * I haven't found any work that I particularly enjoy and that pays well;
        I think it's easier to look for fulfillment and money in different
        places, at least for me.
    * Saving money is easier than making money.
  * The thing that does make more money.
    * I think of money as an expression of social class; people make and
        spend more money when they are in higher social class.
    * You need to follow various norms in order to fit within a social class.
        In the higher classes, these norms require spending a lot of money.
    * I think twice before taking my work seriously. A lot of work is about
        maintaining power hierarchies within an organization or community.
        Most of the time when people say that work is very important, it's
        because they want to have people working under them.
    * The trick to making a lot of money is to have people see you as being
        in a high social class but not spending the money that is common in
        that class.
      * People think of me as being from New York (And I am.) even though
          I'm not always there.
      * I recently set up internet phones so I can pretend to be in
          many different big cities at once.
      * The power game is turtles all the way down. You can play with employers
          the same way that employers play with you.
    * At some level, you probably do need to know what you're doing, and I'm
        quite comfortable with the stuff people hire me for.
2. Sharing
  * The words "open" and "free" are given all kinds of meanings today.
  * But they have something to do with sharing, and that's what I'm going
      to talk about.
  * Sharing is normal in many contexts and strange in others.
3. Strange things I share
  * A
4. Advantages of sharing these things
  * 
