# On modes of transit
I compare the merits of different modes of transit.

## Basic comparison of modes
### Airplane
Good things

* It's cheap.
* I can go pretty much anywhere in the world within a couple days.
* I usually go through immigration only at the origin country and
    destination country. Sometimes I have to do it on a transfer.
    This can be far fewer than I need to going over land.

Bad things

* Booking tickets is very difficult.
* I need to prepare bags for security screening.
* I must go to the airport.
* I need to be careful of my speech so that people don't say I'm
    a terrorist. (This probably applies more in the United States
    than elsewhere.)
* Ears feel weird for a few days after.

### Train
Good things

* It's pretty fast.
* Getting to the train station is usually easy.

Bad things

* It's expensive.
* Booking tickets is sometimes difficult.
* I need to pay attention so I don't miss my train or my stop.

### Bus
Buses are usually a bit like trains but worse in a few ways.

* Harder to book tickets
* I feel sick afterwards.

### Bicycle
Good things

* Scheduling is very flexible.
* I don't need to book tickets.

Bad things

* I need to carry a bicycle with me.
* I need to carry bicycle tools and locks. This doubles the amount of
    stuff (other than the bicycle itself) that I need to carry.
* Planning the route can be some work.

### Car
Good things

* I can lock things inside a car.
* If I choose the car appropriately, I can sleep in it.

Bad things

* I need to park the car.
* Cars are expensive.
* I need to have a driver's license.

### Cruise ship
Booking cruise ships seems especially time-consuming, and I haven't
looked into them much beyond that.

### Walking
Good things

* I don't have to carry much stuff.
* I don't have to book travel tickets.
* It's harder to break laws while walking.

Bad things

* Carrying stuff
* For long distances of walking, I have to plan where I'm going to
    sleep at night.
* It usually takes much longer than other modes of transit.
* Planning the route can be some work.

## My choice
Based on the above reasoning, I had determined that cycling was the most
convenient. However, it quickly gets inconvenient if I go places where
bicycles aren't allowed or if I have to carry it on some other vehicle.

If I take it in a car, I have to make it fit.

If I take it on an airplane, I have to learn the airline's rules for
transporting bicycles, fight with all the staff who don't know the rules,
prepare the bicycle for transport, deal with whatever damage the
airline causes to the bicycle, and ride or carry a broken bicycle until
I fix the damage.

If I take it on the train or bus, I still have to learn the train rules,
though they're usually less annoying.

So cycling is convenient, but only if I don't need to combine it with
other modes of transit and your route is vaguely suitable for cycling.
Walking is probably fine if the route is such that I can easily find
places to sleep.

With the above two exceptions, every mode of transit is ridiculously stressful.

## If money weren't a concern
I ponder how the considerations would change if money weren't a concern.

Walking

* If there are enough stores along the way,
    I could wastefully buy anything I need (electronics, food, &c.)
    and throw it away right after I use it.
* Finding a place to stay at night would probably be a little easier.

Cycling

* I don't think cycling would change substantially.
* I could buy nicer parts, hire all bicycle maintenance, and whimsically
    throw parts away.
* I would still need to do the work of finding shops to sell me things and
    of fitting bicycles to my body.
* When I need to move the bicycle long distances, I could hire a bike shop
    to deal with the shipping for me.
* I could stay in hotels every night.
* Many of the inconveniences of cycling would go away with a folding mountain
    bike, as it's easier to hide from people who don't like bicycles and it
    can handle bad roads.

Chauffeur

* If I'm not driving the car, I don't need a driver's license.
* I don't need to store the car.
* Finding a person who would take me more than a day's drive would probably
    be hard.

Private jet

* I'd have to acquire the jet.
* No security screening, I think
* I still have to get to the airport.

I think cycling is best if I don't have to worry about money, followed by
a combination of chauffeur and private jet.
