title: My frustration with the use of money
-------

I've been frustrated for several years with money,
or at least the way we use it.
I'm going to try articulating these frustations.

## Difficulty of updating money amounts
Once we have exchanged money, it is a lot of work to update the amount
of money that we exchanged. For example, if I sell you something, we
decide on the price at the same time that I provide you the thing;
if I later decide that the price should have been lower, it can be hard
for me to give you the money. And if you later decide that the price should
have been lower, you have to convince me to give you a refund.

Money is a rather abstract thing, so what do I mean by what the price
"should" be? I'm thinking of money as an approximation of the "true"
value embodied in a thing. For example, if I sell you a thing for $80,
we're estimating that the true value of the thing is about $80.
It's hard to figure out what this true value is, though, so we should
expect that it's not *exactly* $80.

If we trust that the errors are small and that they average out to $0
for everyone n the long run, we don't need to be able to update the values
of transactions. On the other hand, when we determine that unfairness occurred
and that there were systematic mismatches between the amount of money
exchanged and the "true" value of the transaction, we do need to update
the values of transactions in order that money may serve as an accurate
indicator of value.

We conduct the "updating" that I discuss with things like refunds,
advocacy, reviews, lawsuits, donations, and criminal court. For example,
if you determine that a product that you bought was defective, you may
ask for a refund; if a bunch of people decide that a power plant is
removing more value from the environment than they are paying as money,
a bunch of people might advocate for the government to do something
about it; if you like a restaurant and think that it's a really good
deal, you can write about it in a review; if the company knowingly
provided you with defective products, you can sue them; if you thnik
that someone with no money is worth anything, you can give her or him
some money; if someone robs a bank, you can arrest him and take the
money back; and if a company does anti-competitive things like form
a monopoly, we can force it to split into separate companies.
This is to say that we have many approaches for updating our
estimates of the values of transactions and that most of these approaches
involve a lot of work.

I view mnoey as a measure of the true value of things. This measure is
sometimes in accurate, and we need to do a lot of work when we want to
fix the inaccuracies.

## We lose a lot of information when we express things as money.
In using a single money number as a general measure of value, we wind up
forcing lots of different sorts of information into a single number;
this limits how well we can use money to represent the values of things
and to decide how to exchange things.

I still haven't really figured out how to articulate this issue, but
the best things I've come up with are the following examples of situations
that I'm calling "interactions" and "implicit trades".

**Interactions**.
In some cases, the value of one thing might depend on another thing.
For example, lots of people could use an extra charger cable for a phone,
but an extra cable is most important if you just lost your charger cable.
In distributing charger cables, we should prioritize people who need the
cable right away and then provide charger cables to other people if extra
are available.
The seller can set a high price to prioritize people who just lost a charger
cable and lose the business of the second group; she can set a low price to
sell more charger cables, without giving preference to the people who really
need the cables; or she can set a high nominal price and offer coupons to the
second group. What winds up happening, I find, is that IRL stores charge
very high prices, prioritizing people who really need the cable, and internet
stores charge low prices, serving the people who don't need the cable right away.
Wouldn't it be great if we had an easy way for IRL stores to prioritize people
who just lost their cables but still serve other people if enough cables are
available?

* interactions
* splits, net

For important things, we keep good accounts that tell us more information
about the thing, but I don't think we really use this to inform how to
exchange things; I see it more as a way of auditing what has been going
on and trying to prevent unfair transactions.

We try to express lots of different things in terms of the same
dimension of money, so we are bound to lose lots of interesting/useful
information about our activities.

## Better ways

Make it easier to adjust transactions, and record more dimensions!

Sharing our transaction history with each other might get us pretty far
with the first issue

Julian Todd suggests that we just hire a thousand lawyers for everyone.

Record more information about transactions! For important things,
we keep good accounts that tell us that a transaction occurred,
that a particular amount of money was moved, some information about
how it was moved, and maybe a description of what was exchanged for
the money.

Usually we just record
that we have a certain amount
