# Sloppy notes from a hilarious evening
I'm sitting in this Landmark thingy guest....
November 26, 2014 in Seattle

It was really obvious that the whole thing is a marketing pitch.
And then they showed the full-blown marketing video. And then it all
made sense.

I think it's a simplified version of hippie-sounding things like
meditation and whatnot but packaged in a very high-class, businessy
way to make it palatable to that sort of person.

It's probably good for people in the same way that those other things are.

They sell to big stuffy companies in a stuffy way because these companies
need this consciousness or whatnot but want to pretend they don't.

Well we're only a few minutes into the evening. Let's see what happens next!

Oh fun! They learn to do a bunch of things that I already do!

* It seems that much of the course is about providing language to describe emotions.
* They make your problems "disappear". They show people that it's not worth
    having these problems; there are more important things in life.
    This is related to my interest in [sleep](/!/sleeping/)
* Speaking in the first person. ("I say ..." rather than "People say ...")

Some words they use.

Racquet
    They use the word "racquet" to describe resentment or complaints that we
    continue to display for a long time. Theoretically, they say, we should
    usually want to do something about the thing we're complaining about;
    if people keep complaining and not doing something about the thing, they're
    complaining because complaining gives them something, like the feeling
    of "being right" about the thing they're complaining about.
    This is an aspect of my writing on [silliness](/!/silly/).
Superstition
    People keep saying that they're a certain way. ("I'm a [some role].")
    when they're really not (just) that. But they believe the words they say.

Compared to meditation, Landmark might involve more words and definitions and
stuff. I notice the same thing about how I deal with or think about this stuff.

There are some other words that I don't quite get.

* Integrity
* Stuck

OMG I just remembered mentioning last night that the organization of vipasana (?)
retreats sounds a lot like Alcoholics Anonymous's organization.

Someone mentioned spiritual nature of this. The guy said that people are going
to connect Landmark to whatever thing that they are used to. Then the main guy
said that Landmark is *not* anything else but is *connected* with everything else.
This sounds like the same stuff I heard from the people at Campus Crusade for
Christ who say that (Christian) God is different from the others and from
Alexander Technique teachers who say that it's nothing like any other technique.

But this stuff can't possibly be all that different, and I really think they're
all different routes to the same thing.

## Knowing
The guy drew a circle. A slice of the pie went to "things you know you know",
another was for "things you know you don't know", and the remaining
three-fourths was for "things you don't know you don't know".
(Where's "things you don't know you know?")

Before college, I think my things-I-knew-I-knew were quite big and the
things-I-didn't-know-I-knew (like ergonomics and whatnot) were also big,
and then I started recognizing the latter group.

Hmm this is different from their thing. But it gets me thinking.

Now I'm really wondering where are the things I don't know I know in that chart.

## Tricks

* The videos are the only blatant marketing; the people there don't have to
    do the marketing.
* The session is somewhat interactive in a way. An interesting thing is that
    the lead guy asks lots of questions of the audience but never asks whether
    the audience has questions.
* The videos do a lot to convince you that Landmark is a very reasonable,
    normal thing to do. Highly stereotyped, "executives", "scientists",
    "managers", "law-enforcement officers" do it! (That's the order.)
    And then "artists", "olympians", "people just like you"--2.2 million.
  * Hehe. They start with the more respectable professions--"executives"
    and only later get onto "artists".
  * Maybe they're making the audience feel like they are among this
    upper class.
* He asks "do you trust him/her"? What does "trust" mean? There's pressure
    to say "yes" without knowing what it means.
* On a person being a pessimest about the thing
  * Skeptical versus cynicism... maybe it's just talking in a very
    matter-of-fact way to make it sound very thought-out.

Sales techniques

* Not obviously disagreeing with people
* Forming agreements with people and making people feel like part of a group
* Cutting people off
* Cynicism, lack of trust, &c. is *bad*, so you shouldn't be cynical about
    the course.

He asks questions again until he gets the answer that makes Landmark look good.


Making people feel smart because they understand something, like my talk
of scales of measurement at Strata


He's not from Seattle, and he's obviously researched Seattle enough to
make people feel like he understands Seattle.


People realize "OMG I have break downs".
But I don't really get why that matters.



I think people often want to change something about themselves but feel like
they can't do it out of the blue; they need a reason for it. This matches the
name "Landmark" really well; it's the thing that we look at as the point where
the life changed.



The "conversation" at the end reminds me of the conversation I had on the
Coast Starlight with a few strangers in the Lounge car shortly after leaving
Oakland on my way to Seattle. The guy from Richmond responded very quickly
to each statement with another question. It seemed to me that he wasn't
keeping track of the overall conversation but was still getting something
from it. I think you feel smart.
And then the other guy got confused at these questions because there was
no thread and he was trying to get something from the overall thing.
Clashing reasons to have the conversation.



Peter was good.




Is my thing against language the same thing as my disinterest in religion?
