[[!meta title="On bicycles and airplanes"]]

On March 26, 2015, I rode my bicycle from Schipol Airport to Amsterdam
city center. It was quite amusing.

## Amusement
My bicycle got somewhat damaged on its way to Schipol.
My front rack is messed up on the right side (and maybe on the left,
but I'm not sure), my front wheel is out of true, and the
thing that the right pedal attaches to is bent such that I can't screw
the pedal back in. I haven't checked whether the frame was bent.
Oh, and I think the rear derailleur is okay.

I'm quite impressed that the airline managed break such sturdy pieces
of metal; I had thought that something else would break first.
It looks like something pressed really hard from the right side against
the bottom-front of the bicycle.

Here starts the amusement. I checked my bike without substantially
disassembling it and packing it nicely in a box. I had read that such
boxes might not be that effective, so one didn't seem worth it, given
the inconvenience. I estimate that the cost of repairs will be less
that that of a box and about as inconvenient, so not getting a box was
*still* a decent idea.

The damage didn't seem that bad at first, and that the ride to town
wasn't that long, so I rode it anyway. I put the right pedal on, even though
it didn't go in all the way and was crooked, and I attached the
front-right pannier bag with a bungee cable. I tried not to push very
hard on the right side pedal.

The pedal came off pretty quickly. I tried putting it back in a couple
of times and then eventually just rode without it. I stayed in my
highest gear the whole way so I didn't have to pedal much.
As usual, my main concern in all of this was that I was breaking some
rule and would get fined for it, but I also knew that I probably was
following the rules and that I probably wouldn't get fined even if I
did break a rule.

One of the times the pedal came off, I hurt my left thumb. I think I
hyperextended the joint at the base of the first metacarpal, and this
made it painful to do much with that hand. But that wasn't much of a loss,
as I already didn't want to change gears and I was going slowly enough
not to need the break! Also, my hands got a little bit cold eventually,
and this probably helped reduce swelling. Funny that it worked out so
not-badly.

The most hilarious part is that the ride was still among the easier and
more pleasant of cycle rides I have taken. I preferred my messed-up
bicycle on Dutch roads over my previously-well-tuned bicycle on American roads.

## On the convenience of a bicycle
Although many people had given rave reviews of cycling, I had refrained
until this past December from acquiring one. Bicycles seemed really big,
and I didn't want to have to carry one.
But then I realized in December that
I could ride a bicycle instead of carrying it, and then it seemed rather
convenient, as I find booking and boarding public transit to be rather
stressful and inconvenient. (I'm fine with the trips themselves.)

The appeal of a bicycle is that I can move between cities without using
public transit. Well, this is actually just the beginning; the bicycle
also makes it easier to go to places that aren't served well by public
transit.

Separate from my bicycle acquisition, I had made appointments in Amsterdam,
Netherlands at the end of March and in Stockholm, Sweden at the end of May,
so I had planned on riding between them. But there's water in-between North
America and Europe, so I had to carry it across the ocean somehow. I couldn't
figure out the bicycle policies for cruise ships, and flying on an airplane was
so much cheaper, so that's what I took.

Having the bicycle has been somewhat inconvenient since December, and
it has been too cold for me to want to ride it very far. (More precisely,
I'm fine with the cycling, but I didn't want to camp in cold weather.)
I was still somewhat on-the-fence about whether it was worth it, but I
figured that it would get more convenient in the warmer weather.

How amazing that a bicycle still manages to inconvenience me in the
Netherlands, where cycling should be super convenient!

## Why am I so concerned about this?
I think I'm bothered that I didn't report this to the airline even though
[I can](http://www.norwegian.com/en/customer-services/travel-information/baggage-/baggage-handling/) and might get some money for the damage.
Why didn't I report it?

The person at the baggage claim told me I couldn't, but this isn't a reason
in itself. When he told me this, I knew that a thrifty and reasonable person
should keep asking different people until someone told me yes, as nobody in
a big organization knows the rules.

I figured that the airline probably wouldn't give me anything and that this
would be just as pointless as any other interaction with big organizations.
Moreover, big organizations scare me, and I expect to need to play games to
get anything from of them, even when it's just the service that I paid for.

## Frustration with big organizations (of people)
I got the bicycle so I wouldn't need to deal with airlines; how funny it
would be if it made me deal more with the airlines! A bigger thing I am
noticing is that I am absolutely terrified of big organizations.

You can get some idea of the terror by considering how completely ridiculous
it is that
I find riding a bicycle to be more convenient than taking an airplane.

The incentives to the staff of a company or government have very little to do
with the interests of the patrons of the company or government.
Even though rules tell members that they must act a certain way, the rules are
so complicated that their staff can't be expected to remember the rules.
And doing something about a breach of the rules is a lot of work.

Moreover, nobody actually wants to work in these big organizations, as far as I
can tell. I think these big organizations, rather than small ones, exist
mainly because the people at the top feel big these organizations get set
up in ways that make them more prominent; addressing their nominal purpose
is only a small consideration.

### Related frustration with division of labor in general
This reminds me of my recent frustration with buying stuff.
I have lately been finding it so much easier to spend a month learning to do
something my self than to hire someone to do/make it for me
(even if it costs very little money). To get someone else to do something,
I have to find the person, vet her, schedule everything, explain what I want
to happen, check that the thing was done well. And there's even more to do
if the thing wasn't done well.

Hmm maybe I need to say it differently, as the above paragraphs don't quite
convey the frustration. I expect all financial transactions to be scams, as
lying and cheating seem to be the only ways of making any money. If I purchase
some thing or service, the chance that I will actually receive whatever it is
still quite low. Thus, I prefer to buy only things and services that are cheap
enough that I can happily throw them away in the very likely case that they are
complete junk.

## How reasonable is this frustration?
I suspect that I learned my aversion to organizations in some other context
where it made sense.

It seems that bureaucracies are pretty bad everywhere and
that they're especially bad in the area where I grew up. I grew up in
[Scarsdale](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scarsdale,_New_York), which is
near [New York City](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_City).

I have lately noticed that some people, particularly some particular people
who grew up in other countries, are much better at dealing with bureaucracies.
And I have read that other people in America are
[way more scared of police](http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2015/03/letter-from-black-america-police-115545.html)
than I am.

Here are a couple situations that contribute to my suspicion that organizations
are worse in the places where I grew up.

### Immigrations officiers and customs officiers
The only difficulty I have ever had going through immigration or customs
ever was at John F. Kennedy Airport in New York City. Perhaps we should
add that the only other time I saw anyone else have trouble was on Amtrak
entering the United States through Niagara Falls (also in the state of
New York), where everyone on the
car who didn't have United States citizenship (and that happened to be
almost everyone) had trouble.

Contrast this with absolutely every other time I have moved between countries
during my entire life; it was always fine! I am always a bit scared when I go
to another country because I know that I'm going to have to go through
immigration and customs when come back into the United States. I'm pretty sure,
though, that this is particularly bad in John F. Kennedy Airport, so I'm just
going to enter through a different airport next time.

### Middle School
It seems that something shifted around seventh and eighth grades
(12 to 14 years old).

I often say that
elementary school was worst time ever, middle school less bad, high school even
less, university even less. And everything I have done since graduating
university has been pretty okay. Teachers, students, and
administrators were much more mean in the lower schools, there was much
more homework in the lower schools, and I found the topics of study
more interesting in the higher schools and after university.

Given what I'm thinking about at the moment, I find it quite interesting
that the shifts were sudden---they were more about the school than about
the grade/age.

I remember concluding in seventh grade that school administrators
weren't really going to do anything about how other students were taking
my things and hitting me. Administrators can't do very much about it,
(Or, it would be a lot of work to do something about it, and they may
risk losing their jobs.) and they said they would do stuff about it
because that's what they're supposed to say.

Here's my present guess as to what is going on. The social status (that is,
power, authority, &c.) of young people gets higher as they get older and move
to higher grades in school; there is a bigger gap in status between the
supervized and the supervisors when the supervized are in elementary school
than when they are in high school. With increases in this gap also come
decreased accountability for the supervisors, and this lack of accountability
is much of my frustration with organizations.

Teachers and administrators may be more receptive in the higher schools,
but I had already given up on them in middle school, before giving them a chance.

### Running away from fights
This conclusion about my powerlessness was quite a relief as it led quickly
to the following corollary:
I can't control whether bad stuff happens to me, and nobody else is going to
help, so it isn't worth even trying to protect my self or my things.

I amended this over the past year or so:
There is one thing that you can do, and that is to
run away from the fighting. That's sometimes pretty hard, of course,
(For example, school is pretty much required until you're 16 in the
United States.) but at least it sometimes works.

You can see this in my reluctance to go to big cities, my disillusion about
[real work](/!/career-advice/), and my interest in [dada](/!/dada/).

<!--
## What I want to do now
When an incident like this reminds me of my (not necessarily reasonable)
perception that nobody cares about each other, this is what I usually
want to do.

1. Embrace the culture of cheating and stealing, and go work for a bank,
    non-government organization, or defense contractor.
2. Buy lots of things that I have put off buying because I didn't think
    I particularly needed them yet.
3. Find more ways to reduce my interactions with organizations/people who scare me.

The "things" in 2 are usually tiny, and they usually support the endeavour in 3.
One example is replacing all of my clothes with fibers that dry quickly, like
wool, so that I can more easily fit my stuff in a [small backpack](/stuff) and
run away from scary places. Another example is getting a bicycle instead of a
car; I did this partly because *scheduling* a driving test (not taking the test)
seemed very stressful.

I am very easily seduced when people sheild me from bureaucracy

Unfortunately, none of these approaches works particularly well. Actually,
that's wrong; these approaches work ridiculously well, and I forget about
that because I have been living the dream for so long. The culture of cheating
and stealing is so strong that running away from everything is actually a
reasonable idea!

But it's still quite unfortunate, as I'm still trading some inconveniences
for other inconveniences. For example, having few things lets me worry less
about property theft, but it also means I have to design my electromyography
equipment such that it is way smaller than it really needs to be. And it is
really messed up that I prefer avoiding a bureaucratic process (scheduling a
driving test) over having a car.

-->

## What I want you to do if you're still reading this
I seem to have given up on interacting at all with big organizations, but
other people haven't. I suspect, as I explain above, that such organizations
aren't always so horrible as the ones I am used to, but I still assume that
they all are, and this is why they're so much work. Here are some requests
for you.

I have the impression that all organizations are bad, not just the ones that
I am used to. Are they really? Please tell me if you know of big places that
are pleasant to interact with. I want to know how they can be that way!

Either way, can you do anything that might convince me that some organizations
are at least *less* horrible than the ones I am used to? Perhaps I can just
read something, as I suggest above, but I'm open to crazier ideas. I'll talk to
people, go somewhere, or maybe even take a job in order to see that better
places exist.
