Here are some possible examples

## Complaining about a particular deli not being a deli

* Not a deli
* Complaining a lot about that
* Thought experiments
  * If it weren't called a deli?
  * If it had deli food too
  * Parking situation
  * My brother and I like it, but dad doesn't.

And then it made sense!

## Violent agreement

* Arguing a lot
* Other times I had seen her, she didn't
* I mentioned this.
* I probably asked what was different. Like maybe she was stressed out about something else
* This is how you have to talk to programmers

After that conversation, I just laughed every time we started arguing
rather than thinking I was saying something wrong

## Programmers with bad social skills (dimensionality, money)

### Dimensions
I was talking with another person, and a third person came by.
Third person asks how many dimensions we have in our data.
Second person comments on the ability to expand one dimension
into many and on the arbitrariness of dimension counts.
(And I agree, but I don't say much.) It seemed like the third
person asked this question because he wanted to talk about
something else. (Men love to hear themselves talk.)
So I asked the third person why he was wondering about the dimensions.
(It isn't ordinary small talk, so there's probably a specific reason.)

It turns out that he is in graduate school and recently wrote a paper
on something related to the number of dimensions in your model. I don't
remember what he said, but it made sense when he said it.

### Money
I must have been especially patient that night. A few minutes later,

* talks aggressively
* likes to talk about neat things he did
* complains

money

* complaining related to economists
* the guy next to me had gone to graduate school for economics, and
    the money guy said that that was a bad economic decision in a
    somewhat condescending way
* money guy liked talking about how he bought an old car for cheap
    (more precisely, it was especially under-valued---cheap for even an old car)
* money guy lives in a subsidised apartment

I asked why he cares so much about money. He said money is how society
represents value and that if he's making lots of money he's doing good for
society (standard economic reasoning). Although this is the textbook economics,
a lot of people don't explain their actions thusly.

So I asked why he cares so much more about money than other people do.
I don't remember how I phrased it, but it probably was quite important
that I phrase it properly; if I hadn't been careful, I think it could have
been easy to take my question as an attack.

He said his parents were poor when he grew up and he decided he wanted to
make a million dollars by the time he was 30. And he did.
