[[!meta title="How to figure out why people talk one way and act another way"]]
[[!meta description="There's usually a simple explanation, but it can take a while to come up with it."]]

## Abstract
Sometimes people act really mean for no apparent reason. Other times they
say stuff that suggests one thing and do stuff that suggests another thing,
and this can seem cold, rude, &c.

I get very confused and frustrated when this happens; why would someone ever
do this? Did I do something wrong? I can hide my frustration by saying that
the person is just fundamentally bad, that leads to other unpleasant things
because this is never the real reason.

It turns out that there usually is a simple explanation that doesn't require
me to hate the person.
I think that the phenomenon, at its core, involves a person who is lying
to himself or herself and is upsetting another person in the process.

In the present piece, I'll show you how I come up with these explanations.
My method can help you to understand people (including yourself),
to recognize mindgames, and to be direct in communication. Moreover,
I hope that it helps you empathise with people who are being mean,
stressful, angry, cold, manipulative, indirect, or rude.

## Term
When someone is lying to herself or himself and upsetting someone else
in the process, I usually describe the whole thing as "silly". What a
strange choice of words!

As [Caitlin](http://inamerryhour.com/) remarked,

> It's difficult
> for me to think of the word 'silly' in a pejorative way because I don't
> usually use it to refer to people's unconscious motivations and strategies
> for rationalizing cognitive dissonance, which I think is what you're
> describing.  I use the word almost exclusively to refer to irreverence or
> eccentrically joyous behavior/speech.  The opposite of seriousness.  I
> think irreverence is a vastly underrated quality.  Those data tacos, for
> instance.  That's an example of the kind of silliness I'd like to see more
> of.

I also consider the data tacos and [data doner](/!/geom_doner)
to be quite silly in the other sense. And while I don't usually want
to be around people who are displaying all of these unpleasant behaviors,
I usually don't see silliness in the present sense as a good thing or a
bad thing; it's just a thing.

I like explaining these unconscious motivations as silly to emphasize
that they're not very serious; I used to feel like people must be really
horrible if they are to be mean, &c., to me. But now I think they're just
playing complicated games, because games are fun and we need something to
do all day. The lengths that people will go to cover up their motivations
are really funny!

I think I took this use of the word "silly" from my friend Dasha a few
years ago, but I only recently figured out what I meant when I used the
word and why I like the word so much.

## Why I write this
I am usually quite interested by why anyone acts the way she or he does.
I thought to write this piece after learning from
[Matt Linares](http://matt.microsplash.org/) about
[neuro-linguistic programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuro-linguistic_programming).
I remarked that I pay attention to the
same sorts of things (without having a name for them) but with the
slightly different focus discussed above: Rather than avoiding being
manipulated, I am interested in understanding why someone would do
something so bizarre.

## Contents

1. [Identifying silly behaviors](identify)
2. [Explaining silly behaviors](explain)
3. [Three examples](examples) of how I identified silly behaviors and then explained them
4. [Common patterns of silliness](patterns): Specific things that you can watch for
5. [Silliness in groups](groups)
6. [Cool things you can do](what-to-do) when you think you understand someone
