[[!meta title="What I think people who want to learn programming"]]

Some people want to learn programming for the sake of it
rather than for a particular project. I would rather [sleep](/!/sleeping/),
but I'm told that such a desire is quite reasonable today.

People often approach this by learning "Python", "JavaScript",
"Ruby on Rails", &c. These are all really broad topics, and
something something. I think people should learn things that
are immediately useful to them. So I came up with this list.
It might be focused on people who write a lot.

* A good text editor (vim or emacs), or a bad text editor and some shell programming
* A thing for copying files between computers (SSH, SCP, SFTP, or rsync)
* Maybe email things

### Text editor
What is a text editor?
With a word processor, we edit the styled, rendered content.
The word processor saves this in a format that we don't see.
For example, we might edit a web page in LibreOffice Writer
and save it as HTML.

When we "edit text" or use a "text editor", we are editing
the raw, unrendered code. We are separating the editing from
the rendering.

This is related to the concepts of what you see is what you
get and what you see is what you mean.
A word processor stores information in a relatively complex file format
with all of the style information and whatnot.

There's some canonical essay about why what-you-see-is-what-you-get
is bad and why things like LaTeX are better. But I can't find it.


<!--
interface for controlling character-based data

different from a word processor


source code of 

more formatting
-->

### Copying files between computers
People use all sorts of hip new softwares for copying files between computers,
but I find the old-fashioned stuff to be way easier. Learn to use any of SCP,
SSH, SFTP, or rsync, and you won't need to deal with DropBoxes, Google Drives,
or huge email attachements.

### Email things
All of the free-of-cost email services that I have tried are pretty bad, and
most of the paid ones that I haven't tried are pretty expensive. There are
various different softwares that can replace services like Gmail, which I find
to be rather slow, confusing, and generally frustrating.
