## Services
Let's walk through the path of an email that is sent to me. 

Pretty much any email address you might have for me forwards to
[\_@thomaslevine.com](mailto:_@thomaslevine.com). This is an account
on [Gandi](https://gandi.net)'s mail service.

Every minute or so, I connect to that email account with over IMAP
with imapfilter. Imapfilter filters some emails into different
[mailboxes](#mailboxes).

Next, I connect with offlineimap, to synchronize the computers between
Gandi's server and my local computer. New emails that have arrived at
Gandi get sent to my local computer, and new emails that I have written,
or movements of emails from one mailbox to another, get sent from my
local computer to the Gandi server.

offlineimap stores emails in maildirs.
I send these maildirs to a [backup server](../permissions/)
over rsync.

After the synchronization, I index the emails for searching with
[notmuch](http://notmuchmail.org).

Then I read and write emails in [mutt](http://mutt.org/).
I search them with notmuch-mutt,
and I record email addresses of frequent contacts as mutt
aliases.
These aliases are stored in a private git repository; you can read
about how that gets stored in [permissions](../permissions/).

All of the above steps can happen on either my "laptop" or on "home".
Imapfilter, offlineimap, and notmuch are always running on home, but the
computer I use for email reading depends on my internet connection.

If I am not connected to the internet, I read and write emails on "laptop"
and synchronize them later. If I am on a bad internet connection, I usually
read and write things on "laptop", synchronize the drafts with "home", and
then send them from "home". If I'm on a really bad internet connection,
I don't synchronize them to laptop at all, because that takes more bandwith
than just logging into "home" and doing everything there.

Regardless of which computer I send the emails from, I send them through
Gandi's SMTP server.

<h2 id="mailboxes">Mailboxes</h2>
Emails arrive in the Inbox mailbox. Imapfilter moves most of them to
one of the following mailbox.

* Lists (mailing lists)
* Pulse (emails that I don't read but haven't figured out how to
    disable, such as most things from Facebook, GitHub and LinkedIn)
* Spam

I read the emails that remain in Inbox.
After I read the email, I preferably do something right away that allows
me to never read the email again. If the email is just a newsletter,
I don't have to do anything else. More likely, I wind up adding something
to my calendar/to-do-list or responding to the email. Once I have fully
addressed the email, I move it to one of these places

* Archive (most emails)
* Interesting (particularly interesting emails)

If I want to do something about the email but keep not doing anything
about it, I move it to the "Catharsis" mailbox. This makes it easier to
look through the remaining things in Inbox.

I might also move an email to the "Public" mailbox, which makes them
show up [on the public web](#permissions).

I read the emails in Lists and Catharsis when I'm bored.

<h2 id="permissions">Permissions</h2>
By default, I consider all emails I receive to contain private information.
Within my [data classification scheme](../permissions/), I consider emails
to be "home" level data.

I can selectively decide to publish emails by moving them from to the "Public"
mailbox. These emails get sent to the computer running the Dada Portal software,
which indexes them for searching exposes them in the email endpoint.
