# Carmel-by-the-Sea
I had a hunch a few years ago about how municpalities work.

I figured that any particular big city would have a wider variety of
happenings, political views, social circles, &c. than a small town
would. If this is the case, a particular person with particular preferences
would be more able to find things he prefers in a big city, just because
it's more likely that such things are available. I started pondering how
I might identify small towns that appeal to particular preferences.

I had recently attended university in Ithaca, New York, which is a
(pleasantly) strange place. It bothered me that I could only determine
what a place was like after having accidentally moved there; I wanted to
look more systematically for places based on their character.

I never determined whether my hunch was correct, but it contributed to
the idea that I'm about to present.

## Yoga
I considered what was peculiar about Ithaca. Lots of things came to mind,
but I focused on the things that were easy to articulate/test.

* Seemingly everybody composts.
* It has a three tertiary schools.
* Wacky stuff like yoga is popular.
* People consider their ecological impacts.
* There are lots of farms nearby.

I search around for data related to the above things and other things
and arrived at the
[teacher directory](https://www.yogaalliance.org/Directory?Type=Teacher)
of the [Yoga Alliance](https://www.yogaalliance.org/).
This directory included contact information for each of 40,000 teachers,
often with full addresses. How interesting.

## On Ithaca
I eventually determined that Ithaca is rather typical of a college town
in the United States. The college attracts money and crazy people to a
relatively inexpensive area that would otherwise seem a bit remote.
It winds up being a good place to do art, to express extreme politics,
and to retire.
