[[!meta title="I like people"]]
[[!meta description="Things I do to learn about people"]]

I'm always curious about everything about people. Well, surely not
everything, but it seems like everything. I'm always curious to see
what a person likes to do, what the person thinks about, how the person
relates to other people, and how this all came to be.

I remarked that there's a system by which I attend to this curiosity,
but I only remember the different parts of the system when I notice
myself using them. I started writing everything down here in hopes that
I might eventually manage to explain how I do this.

## An overview of what I do
I get pretty far by just asking people questions and listening to their
answers, without interpreting the answers in much detail.
I think that I developed my social skills by reading about the design
of interviews and questionnaires.

At the same time, I'm paying attention to a bunch of things that don't
require me to talk.
Well, this one is always happening, not just while I'm asking people
questions. There is a mental bunch of patterns that I pay attention to,
and much of the present piece is about me trying to remember all of them
and write them down.

Things get really interesting when I start asking questions about
these other things I have noticed.

## Why you might care
I think that paying attention to this stuff helps me understand people
(including myself), to recognize mindgames, and to be direct in communication.
More importantly, understanding people's idiosyncracies is just
really fun.

## Contents
I have divided this piece into sections. You could read them in the
order that I list them below, but you could also just read whichever one
sounds most interesting.

[Questions I Ask](questions) discusses some common
patterns of questions that I might ask. As I said, I think my social skills
came from literature on the design of interviews and questionnaires,
and you might see why as you read this section.

In [Patterns I Have Seen](patterns), I list some things things that I have
noticed in a bunch of people.

I get quite curious [when people are being mean or otherwise unpleasant](mean).
In this section, I discuss some things related to people who are being unpleasant.

The sections above are more about how I try to understand individual
people. There are some special things about groups, and I discuss these in
[Groups As Atomic Units](groups).

We might see my interest in how other people act as an interest in how
I act. So there will eventually be a section on [understanding myself](me),
though I don't know what I'm going to put in it.

Mixed within each of the above sections are stories of fun things that happened
after I did these various sorts of things.

I have some [Concluding Thoughts](conclusion) on all of this. This section
would conventionally appear at the end of a book, and it is usually the
first or second section that I read.
