
## When people are being mean or otherwise unpleasant
I'm interested in people even when they're unpleasant to be around.

I first thought to write something like the present piece after learning from
[Matt Linares](http://matt.microsplash.org/) about
[neuro-linguistic programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuro-linguistic_programming).
I remarked that I pay attention to the
same sorts of things (without having a name for them) but with the
slightly different focus discussed above: Rather than avoiding being
manipulated, I am interested in understanding why someone would do
something so bizarre.

A common perspective (in law and religion, for example) on people who are
acting mean, rude, manipulative, or otherwise unpleasant is that they are *bad*.
When people are *really* bad, we might even choose to stop them, fix them,
punish them, or just avoid them. This is a nice way for good people to get
into fights with bad people. It makes for an entertaining game, but it's a bit
too exciting for me.

The distinction between good and bad always seems kind of arbitrary to me.
I sometimes find myself among a group of people who are discussing
something *bad* that a person did. The focus is often about how *bad* the
thing was and whether the person should be avoided, punished, &c.
This discussion always seems a bit mean and unempathetic.

When someone acts in a way that displeases me, or when people think that
someone did something bad, I usually become curious as to why the person
did the thing and why the people reacted the way they did. The reasons are
usually interestingly complicated or hilariously simple. Figuring out the
reasons is lots of fun, and thinking about *good* versus *bad* is too stressful.

