[[!meta title="Common patterns"]]

Here are some things that I see lots of people doing.

## Questions with implicit assumptions
Consider difference between the following questions.

1. Do you have a goal in life?
2. What is your goal in life?

The second question only makes sense if the answer to the first is "yes",
but someone may ask the second question without having confirmed that the
answer to the first question is "yes".

If someone asks a question of the second type without first asking a
question of the first type and I get an odd feeling about the way the question
is asked, it sometimes means that the person wants the answer to the first
question to be "yes".

### A person who asked about passions
I met someone who would ask people "What are are you passionate about?"
At the time, I mostly liked to sit around and not do much, and the word
"passion" didn't seem to fit. I told him something to that effect when
he asked me, (I probably said that I like to [sleep](/!/sleeping/).)
and he wound up teasing some sort of passion out of me. I think it had
something to do with saving the world, inspiring people, or being
enlightened, but I don't remember the details of the conversation.

Another time, this same person asked another person what she was passionate
about. She said that she wasn't passionate about anything, but she said it
in a soft (that is, not firm) way, and this first person insisted that she
wasn't giving herself enough credit and that she was surely passionate about
something.

Here are some things that might have been going on with this person who
would ask about peoples' passions and was very insistant that people had them.

* He thinks a lot about passions.
* He believes that he is passionate about something, or he wants to believe
    that he is passionate about something.
* He wants friends and needs some way of choosing which people to be friends
    with, (I want to write a few paragraphs about this and then link to it.)
    so he chooses to associate only with people who are passionate.
* He wants to have purpose in life, so he assigns purpose to the mundane
    things that he does. He looked like he was in his twenties, which I find
    to be the age where this phenomenon is strongest.
* You could describe him as being very passionate about changing the world
    for the better (in a particular way that I won't discuss), and you could
    also describe him as "homeless", "broke", and "unemployed". We might frown
    on him based on the latter description, so he exaggerates the former
    description.
* He wants to help people find their passions.

I find the above sorts of things to occur in people who ask questions with
strong assumptions.

Keep in mind, however, that it's not always that way. Often (usually?),
the person is just abbreviating the question that doesn't have strong assumptions
is just abbreviating the question that doesn't have strong
assumptions (That is, "Are you passionate about something, and if so what?")
because that version is quite long.

### Every young professional ever
Lots of people ask, "What do you do?". In some circles, the question is
phrased as "Where are you from?", meaning which organization rather than
which country.

This is standard small-talk when socializing in work settings, (networking,
meeting, &c.) so it could be that the person frequently rolls in such crowds
and thus has gotten used to using this question as a greeting.

On the other hand, it can also mean all of the things that the question
in the previous story meant. The person might identify strongly with his
work or be very focused on his work. He might have recently started working
and/or might want to believe that he is doing something. And so on.





##
* Brain settling, internal judgement
* When people are defensive about things they might collaborate with
* When people phrase things as people being defensive, it's a bit different maybe
* Person fits everything into a particular mental model
* Being very rational to avoid acknowledging feelings
* Shutting down verbally

## Using lots of negation
I find that people sometimes tend towards positive grammatical constructions
and other times tend towards negative grammatical constructions. The latter
is more interesting to me, for whatever reason.

By "using lots of negation", I mean literally that people use words like
"not", "no", and "without" and that they use prefixes like "un-", "anti-",
and "in-". Another way of saying this is that people start conversations by
complaining; people focus on things being different rather than the same;
people express their anger, hopelessness, &c.; and people appear to be
fighting something.

I find that people with this sort of demeanor are usually unhappy, stressed,
&c. Often, they also want to relate with other people, (Some people call this
"confluence".) and it can be easier to do that with negation.

### Several activist types
I have met several people who fit the following description.

They are hesitant to discuss their personal life, especially history and
family. They may discuss the things they are working on now, but don't
discuss previous activist actions very forwardly. They have been involved
in some sort of activism, such as a protest.

They talk in complaints. For example, one said "I give dinner a C-." where
convention would be to say "Thanks for dinner."

They bond through laments about the unfortunate state of the world,
such as discussions of the startling degrees of corruption of the world;
of the dismal prospects for people of low social class; and of the
exploitative destruction of the planet for financial gain. This is in
contrast to other conversation topics, such as family, hair products,
or hobbies. Or of all the good that there is in the world, of how good
the prospects are for some people, or about how beautiful the world is.

When you see this degree of negativity in people, it is easy to focus on
the things that they are negating. For example, if a person complains
about the state of health insurance in her country, you might think that
the person cares about health insurance. It's worth considering, however,
that the topic of health insurance is irrelevant noise and that the real
topic is that the person is angry, frustrated, &c. with something.

### Anti
I briefly met [Anti](http://anti.sx/) at
[Squat Le Bloc](https://www.facebook.com/blocmouzaia).
I love his name.

I only saw him for a few minutes ever, so I don't really know whether he
fits the pattern that I'm discussing, but I know many other people who could
fittingly take his name. Rather than seeing such people as wanting a change
in government, business, people, &c., I like to see such people as wanting
to be against things.



## Beginning a thought with a very firm statement
Let me take a paragraph tangent on a fun story.
When I was in university, lots of people would ask me what my major
was. I'd say it was "ergonomics", and then I'd have to explain
[what ergonomics is]().
One day, I met someone whose major was math. I asked her what math
was and learned that it was "lies". And then I finally realized that
I should ask other people what their majors meant.

One day, I met someone whose major was political science, and I asked
him, just like I'd ask everyone else, what political science was.
He insisted right away that "It is a science!" and then justified that
the stuff he did in class was very scientific. I guess a lot of people
tell him that political science isn't a science. Moreover, I think he
wants to justify that he's doing something real.

## Beginning a thought with an unsolicited negation
This is similar to the previous one about firm statements.
I pay quite a lot of attention to negation, as you can read above.
Sometimes, people begin a thought with a negation. A common one is
"It's not about the money." during a discussion of why someone does
the work he or she does.

Someone who works for the Gates Foundation opened a thought with
something to the effect of "We will not fund projects that use
technology for education but not in novel ways." It would be one
thing if someone had asked, "Will you fund projects that use
off-the-shelf technology for education?" but that wasn't the case;
this person who works for the Gates Foundation was giving a talk.

When I see such unsolicited negations as a specific sort of firm statement
(discussed above), and I have the same reaction; people really are working
for the money or are funding non-novel technology projects, but they want
to believe that they aren't.

## Immediate survival and comfort
Reasonable mysticism and unreasonable other things: Have you eaten?




## Unsolicited confirmation
People do this to convince themselves that they're going to do something
that they really want to do because they really want to do it but they
can't do it because there's something else that's more important.




## Exaggerations to fit in



## Forced speech
Sometimes, 

I recall finding myself in a circle of people where one person mentioned
that he had just quit his job and then everyone except me (literally)
applauded very loudly. That seemed a bit odd. I think that everyone either
had just quit his/her job or was considering quitting his/her job and was
looking for confirmation that he/she was making a good choice.

## Asking lots of questions

attention, recognition, &c.

## Intimate relationships
People in very close relationships (romance, certain business partnerships,
teacher-student relationships, parent-child relationships, &c.) can behave
quite differently from how they would around anyone else.
(Here's a somewhat [extreme and gruesome example](http://www.propublica.org/article/finding-oscar-massacre-memory-and-justice-in-guatemala).)
In such cases, it is often informative to consider the entire group to be
an atomic unit.

When someone gets upset about someone she or he is so close to, that person
is often upset at qualities of herself or himself that she or he sees in the
other person. Also, it is unlikely that one of the persons is being reasonable
and the other one being unreasonable; they are probably both being unreasonable.

Now is there an example that people would be okay with me sharing with the
internet....

## Specific interests

* Dermatologist with good visual memory
* Law student wants to work in comic books (because good and evil)
* Arguing about Palistine



I once conversed with someone who made a documentary about conflict in
Palestine. It was quite apparent that was so enthusiastic/angry about
it and that this was part of why she made the documentary. 


## Closing eyes or looking away
















Here are some possible examples

## Complaining about a particular deli not being a deli

* Not a deli
* Complaining a lot about that
* Thought experiments
  * If it weren't called a deli?
  * If it had deli food too
  * Parking situation
  * My brother and I like it, but dad doesn't.

And then it made sense!

## Violent agreement

* Arguing a lot
* Other times I had seen her, she didn't
* I mentioned this.
* I probably asked what was different. Like maybe she was stressed out about something else
* This is how you have to talk to programmers

After that conversation, I just laughed every time we started arguing
rather than thinking I was saying something wrong

## Programmers with bad social skills (dimensionality, money)

### Dimensions
I was talking with another person, and a third person came by.
Third person asks how many dimensions we have in our data.
Second person comments on the ability to expand one dimension
into many and on the arbitrariness of dimension counts.
(And I agree, but I don't say much.) It seemed like the third
person asked this question because he wanted to talk about
something else. (Men love to hear themselves talk.)
So I asked the third person why he was wondering about the dimensions.
(It isn't ordinary small talk, so there's probably a specific reason.)

It turns out that he is in graduate school and recently wrote a paper
on something related to the number of dimensions in your model. I don't
remember what he said, but it made sense when he said it.

### Money
I must have been especially patient that night. A few minutes later,

* talks aggressively
* likes to talk about neat things he did
* complains

money

* complaining related to economists
* the guy next to me had gone to graduate school for economics, and
    the money guy said that that was a bad economic decision in a
    somewhat condescending way
* money guy liked talking about how he bought an old car for cheap
    (more precisely, it was especially under-valued---cheap for even an old car)
* money guy lives in a subsidised apartment

I asked why he cares so much about money. He said money is how society
represents value and that if he's making lots of money he's doing good for
society (standard economic reasoning). Although this is the textbook economics,
a lot of people don't explain their actions thusly.

So I asked why he cares so much more about money than other people do.
I don't remember how I phrased it, but it probably was quite important
that I phrase it properly; if I hadn't been careful, I think it could have
been easy to take my question as an attack.

He said his parents were poor when he grew up and he decided he wanted to
make a million dollars by the time he was 30. And he did.

## Generalizations
Mentally switch generalizations for specifics

## Advice
People give advice to

* feel learned
* convince themselves that the advice they are following is right
* take up the role of a mentor


## People are really into their job
Have you ever seen someone who is really really excited about his or
her job? He or she probably only just started the job. It might even
be his or her first job! If he or she has had the job for a while,
he or she probably feels like an
[imposter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome).

The deeper thing in all of these cases is that the person is trying
to convince herself that she made a good choice of job, that she is
good at her job, and that her job is doing something useful.
