Before considering whether I like how clothes look, I evaluate
clothes with several much simpler criteria.

## General things


### Material
The material must be something interesting, and that probably
means that it comes from an animal. Wool and silk are interesting,
for example, and 

### Comfort
I prefer clothes that do not restrict my movement very much.
This includes things that are soft, stretchy, or loose-fitting.

### Color
The color has to go with pink. Neutral colors are quite good,
as are certain blues and yellows.

It is also okay for the garment itself to be pink, of course.
I particularly like using pink as an accent color. For example,
gloves, buttons on a shirt, and small sections of pink are all
good. Large patches of pink are good if they include multiple
pinks. For example, strips of different pinks or of pink and
white are good. Large patches of pink are also okay if they have
an interesting texture, such a knit. On the other hand,
I probably won't consider a plain cotton T-shirt, for example.

## Type-specific preferences
Here are some criteria specific to clothing types.

### Shirt
My American shirt size is small. I usually wear size small, and I
rarely consider wearing size medium. I don't think I ever consider
shirts of other sizes.

Also, I wear only long-sleeved shirts.

### Pants


### Shoes
My European shoe size is between 42 and 43. I don't know what the
American equivalent is.

I don't like when shoes restrict the way I sit. I like shoes that
are easy to take off and put on, and I like shoes that are very
thin; both of these types of shoes make it easy to switch postures.

### Jackets
Jackets take up a lot of space when they are folded up, so I am only
interested in them if they somehow don't take up very much space.
I like windbreakers, for example.

### Sweaters
Sweaters also take up a lot of space when they are folded up, so I
prefer to have several thin and warm sweaters. That said, I do consider
big sweaters that take up a lot of space, as they can be nice to wear
at home during winter.

### Socks
I would like to have at least three pairs of the same socks in order
not to need to sort them very much.

## Current interests
I'm quite pleased with my present underwear, socks, hats, scarves,
jackets, and dress shirts. I'm looking mainly for shirts, light
sweaters, and pants that meet the above criteria.
