I think most of my preferences regarding work relate to me
wanting to [retire]().

When I think of retirement, I'm thinking that I don't work
or that I don't plan what I work on. (These are different
phrasings of the same thing.)

Here I discuss the preferences that follow from this desire.

## Good pay
In big cities in the United States, where all of my work has been,
the lowest salary that I would consider for a full-time job is about
$160,000. Note that I said "lowest", so I would still be on the
fence at this salary.

I would consider lower salaries in other contexts, such as the ones
described below.

## Little work
Because I haven't found much work that pays well enough to excite me,
you could say that I am semi-retired right now. Even if the pay isn't
great, I'll take short-term or part-time work as long as the application
process isn't very involved.

## Learning things
I am getting frustrated with dynamic programming languages and am very
slowly moving to Haskell. A job that would teach me a functional language
would appeal to me.

There are very few computer things that I want to learn, so the
need to learn a lot about a big new thing would usually make me less
interested in the work.

## "Research", "Art", &c.
I remarked last year that my life was kind of like that of a professor
in a research position. The stuff that I do for fun could be described
as things like "research" and "art", so it is possible that a job of this
sort would appeal to me.

That said, I determined a couple years ago that it was easier to do work
that pays and have time for fun things is than it is to find a job that
I like doing, so I am skeptical that this is a reasonable sort of job for
me to look for.

## Location
I would like to be in a smaller city or town.

I find all large American cities and some other large cities (London,
for example) to be a bit louder than I like. Smaller cities are cheaper,
and I like being able to take walks in parks or the woods.

Inconveniently, I am afraid of cars (because I have read about how
dangerous they are), and going without a car is hard in America. Still,
many American cities and most European cities would be appropriate.

## Tax country
I have citizenship in the United States only. This has some bizarre
implications.

### Residency
Given the various typical complaints about America, jobs elsewhere would
be especially appealing if they would assist in providing me long-term
residency in relatively appealing countries.

### Preference for low salaries in other countries
American citizens are required to pay United States income tax on money
they earn while resident abroad if they earn more than $90,000 per year
(or something close to that). With assorted deductions, that might
effectively get pushed closer to $100,000.

With this in mind, if I am working outside of the United States,
I am likely to prefer to earn less than that figure and to work
correspondingly less.

## Travel
Because I have become so good at [moving](/stuff), I don't mind travel
as much as other people do. Moreover, if a job involved near-constant
travel, I could take a substantially lower salary as I wouldn't need
to keep a normal apartment.
