## Session Title
Pink hat hacking: What cool things can we do when we do stupid things to a million spreadsheets at once?

## Brief Abstract
There are too many cool data to look at, and I want to look at them
all. But I also want to sleep, so I get computers to look at the data.
I've been downloading lots of "open data" (spreadsheets) and doing
[silly things](http://dada.pink/open-data)
to them to figure out what they all are.
I'm finding out what open data are released, how people are using them, and how we can make them better.
Here are some particular things I'll mention.

* [Pluplusch](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pluplusch): Get spreadsheets from different places
* Statistics about spreadsheets
* Comparing features of different data catalog products
* Looking at server logs on data publisher websites
* [Comma search](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/commasearch): Search for spreadsheets based on spreadsheets

And then I want to brainstorm other silly things I and others can do, like

* How can we measure how good or bad a spreadsheet is?
* How can we look for spreadsheets that are relevant to a particular thing?
* How can we deal with bad metadata?
* The way we publish data might affect how we use them. Can we test
    for effects of data publishing methods by looking at how thousands
    of differently published datasets are used?

## Tag Your Session's Theme
open data, data catalogs, socrata, ckan, opendatasoft, csv

## Add a Twitter Hashtag
\#pluplusch

## Do you have slides or other media?
Other media

## Speaker Information
Thomas Levine<br/>
_@thomaslevine.com<br/>
thomaslevine<br/>
dada artist

## Special requests?
I'm submitting two other sessions, and I would like my sessions not to conflict.
