## For non-tech

[Look here](/notes/documentation-for-not-software)

## Jargon

* Chris
* Milan
* Tom
* Doman
* AA
* BB
* Chris
* Sven
* CC
* Stefan
* Kay
* DD

Tom's thoughts: I rarely (never?) like using jargon, but I feel a lot
of pressure to use it. Maybe there's some cultural thing among the sort
of people who would write documentation? I think people assign jargon
labels to things when they don't understand it and want to fit it into
an existing mental model or to pretend (to themselves) that they
understand it.

BB: Newbie programming and documentation

DD: Pittsburgh community thing time-specific jargon that loses meaning
after some time


### Glossaries?
Sven works with people whit h lots of jargon.
Do people have experience?

Drupal has one.

How to give people a grasp of what they're doing?

Words like "terminated unexpectedly" or "terminated with a segmentation fault"
to be clear about errata


### 2

Terms like "pure" and "closure"---is that okay? Should we have invented
other words?


Programmatically look at a text to figure out what is jargon?


Hemingway tool

Readability indices

Pay attention to seemingly common words, especially for translation.
For example, people had an easier way of translating "keep" than "store".

### 3

* No real documentation---just wishy-washy marketing talk, especially with proprietary software
* Should we explain elementary things like that a code block is a bunch of stuff
    that should be run as root because it has a `#`?


Keeping PDFS up to date

* CSS print
