# What is data, and what is a data scientist?
Data science is a very new field that we are still figuring out how to
talk about. As such, it has taken a little while for us to make sense of
all of the. Having worked in data science for a few years, I finally think
I have a good understanding of the field, and I present for you my definitions
of the following terms

* data
* big data
* data science
* data scientist
* data visualization developer
* data visualization engineer
* software engineer (in the context of data science)
* data engineer

## The field of data

## Quanitative skills
Data science is big on quantitative skills, and people who work in data science
are classified based on their quantitative skills.
A person is considered to have strong quantitative skills if most he or she
meets most of the following criteria.

* He or she presents believes that her work is very sophisticated or
  complicated.
* He is male, or she conducts herself very masculinely.
* He or she presents her work in ways that are difficult for most
  people to understand.

## People in data
Now that I have discussed the general field of data, I can tell you
about the different sorts of people that we find within the field.

### Data scientists
The main personification of the field of data science is the data scientist.

Data scientists are people who want to feel like they are conducting
novel research (by their own definitions of "research"), were unable
to get jobs in academia, managed to find work in the field of data,
and are considered to posess strong quantitative skills.

The specific work that they do is quite varied, but it usually gets
packaged as the creation of new knowledge, rather than as the creation
of new software.

### Data visualization developer
A data visualization developer is person who meets all of the
above criteria for being a data scientist except that he or she is
thought to lack the quantitative skills necessary for data scientist. That is,

* He or she is female.
* He or she presents her work in ways that broad audiences can understand it.
* He or she is less concerned about the sophistication/complexity of her work
  than a data scientist would be.

A data visualization developer packages his or her work as novel research,
just like a data scientist, but the work usually gets distributed to a wide
and distant audience. For example, while a data scientist would report his
findings to a small committee within a company, a data visualization developer
would report her findings to the public at large.

### Software engineers
Software engineers are people who work in data and have strong quantitative
skills but did not previously consider work in academia or do not feel the
need to conduct novel research.

### Data engineers
An additional *data engineer* role is sometimes present. It describes
someone that is between a software engineer and a data scientist.

A data engineer is usually the same as a software engineer, but with
different branding. The name "software engineer" alludes to a time before
the recent interest in data, and the name "data engineer" alludes to recent
times. Data engineers are often younger than software engineers and tend to
conduct themselves less conservatively than data engineers. Software
engineers bring wisdom from a earlier times, and data engineers bring
youthful creativity and aspirations.

Data engineer are sometimes more like data scientists, however.
This is most likely to happen if the data scientist had previously
aspired to work in
computer science, or another field with "computer" in the name. If the
person previously sought out academic work in ecology, for example,
he or she is most likely to be considered a data scientist.

If a company has both software engineers and data engineers, then the
data engineers usually develop tools for data scientists or data analysts,
based on data generated by the core product, and the software engineers
focus on developing the core product.

### Data visualization engineer
A data visualization engineer is person who meets all of the
criteria for being a software/data engineer except that he or she is
thought to lack the quantitative skills necessary for data scientist.
In contrast to the software/data engineer,

* He or she is female.
  designs software for people
  mostly male
* He or she presents her work in ways that broad audiences can understand it.
* He or she is less concerned about the sophistication/complexity of her work
  than a data scientist would be.
