title: Brainstorming
[[!tag learn]]
created_at: 2013-06-09

Lots of people think that creativity is some innate trait that
can't be learned. It isn't; people seem to think I'm very creative,
and my approach to creativity is rather mechanical, rote,
formulaic, and other synonymous adjectives. Here are a few things
I do to come up with ideas that seem new.

## Ways of thinking
I take inspiration from a book that I'll try not to name because
I feel like it is overly hyped. The book reads like a self-help book,
and the [website](http://www.debonogroup.com/six_thinking_hats.php)
is hilariously business-like, so maybe you shouldn't take
this too seriously. This book presents six modes of thinking.

> Six distinct directions are identified and assigned a color. The six directions are:

> * Managing (Blue) - what is the subject? what are we thinking about? what is the goal?
> * Information (White) - considering purely what information is available, what are the facts?
> * Emotions (Red) - intuitive or instinctive gut reactions or statements of emotional feeling (but not any justification)
> * Discernment (Black) - logic applied to identifying reasons to be cautious and conservative
> * Optimistic response (Yellow) - logic applied to identifying benefits, seeking harmony
> * Creativity (Green) - statements of provocation and investigation, seeing where a thought goes

> Coloured hats are used as metaphors for each direction. Switching to a direction is symbolized by the act of putting on a coloured hat, either literally or metaphorically. These metaphors allow for a more complete and elaborate segregation of the thinking directions. The six thinking hats indicate problems and solutions about an idea the thinker may come up with.

*(from the [Wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Six_Thinking_Hats))*

I vaguely keep these modes of thinking in mind, and
I try to balance conversations by adopting
modes that are underrepresented in the conversation.

## Questions
I have various mental lists of ways of asking more questions, but I only seem
to remember them when I need them. I'm trying to write them all down here.

When you want to think of something new about some thing, ask questions about
it that emphasize the words listed below. The quoted questions are responses
to the sentence "I like broccili".

* Five Ws
  * who ("Who else do you know who likes broccili?")
  * what ("What else do you like?")
  * when ("When did you start liking broccili?")
  * where ("Where do you like to eat broccili?")
  * why ("Why do you like broccili?")
  * how ("How do you prepare broccili?")
* Senses
  * sound ("What does broccili sound like?")
  * feel ("What does broccili feel like?")
  * smell ("What does broccili smell like?")
  * taste ("What does broccili taste like?")
  * look ("What does broccili look like?")
* Switch the roles of participants. ("Does broccili like you?")
* Vocabulary; examples:
  * "What is broccili?"
  * "What do you mean by 'like'?"
* Motivation ("Why do you mention that you like broccili?")

## Why people do things
I generally wonder why anybody does anything, so I often ask about that.
This question often feels like brainstorming because nobody asks it.

If someone mentions that she has a particular hobby, I might ask why she
likes that thing.

If someone complains about how
[other](http://www.gop.com/) [people](http://www.democrats.org/)
are doing something stupid, I might ask why people would do such a thing,
or why people would believe such nonsense.

When I saw a
[talk](http://2014.okfestival.org/okfestival-keynote-spotlight-patrick-alley/)
about how corrupt the world is and how
[Global Witness](http://globalwitness.org/)
exposes the corruption, I asked why people take part in corruption.

For important things, people often don't know. Or they do kind of know,
but there's a deep reason that people are hiding from themselves. This
makes the question harder to answer and makes the answer more interesting.

## Figure out what was appealing about prior good ideas
If you can explain why you like things that you have already thought of,
you can target your thinking-up of new things.

Perhaps you are trying to come up with a logo for your awesome new thing.
People start coming up with ideas. People seem to like using broccili,
ping-pong tables, trees, and algae as logos. But they don't like carrots, 
air hockey tables, rocks, or moldy bread.
All of the things in the first group are green; is that why we like them?
Once you've noticed this, you can focus your thinking on green things and/or
think about why you like green things.
