    To:
    Examination Appeals Board,
    Postbus 5, 2600 AA
    Delft
    the Netherlands

Dear Examination Appeals Board,

My application to the software technology tract of the masters program in computer science
was rejected, and I wish to appeal this decision.

My decision letter provides the following reason for the rejection of my application.

> The Selection Committee considers your academic background/specialisation not closely enough related to the MSc programme you wish to participate in.

I would like to appeal this decision on the following grounds:
I consider my academic background and specialisation to be very closely related to MSc that I wish to participate in.
Below, you will find further description of these grounds.

Thank you

Thomas Levine

(signature)

(date)

## Further description of the grounds for the appeal

### Ergonomics background
My bachelor's program was in ergonomics and was closely related to
the software technology track of the computer science masters at Delft.
Much of my coursework was on the topics of usability and human-computer
interaction design; my courses involved developing software.

### Math background
While it wasn't mentioned in the decision email, I heard that the selection
committee was also concerned that I do not have enough of a math background
to take the higher level computer science courses. In case that was indeed
an issue, I address it here as well. I'm going to focus on things that could
be inferred from my academic transcript.

I haven't found a list of math requirements for this specific program, but
I've studied the typical math topics that I would expect a computer science
masters program to require.

1. Based on my six statistics courses, you may infer that I know something
    about probability theory. (These are the courses in the "BTRY", "PAM",
    and "STSCI" departments.)
2. Multivariate statistics requires a strong understanding of linear
    algebra. I received a perfect score (4.0) in my multivariate statistics
    course (BTRY 4100, spring 2010), so you may infer that I have a
    strong understanding of linear algebra. At my undergraduate university,
    linear algebra was a prerequisite for multivariate statistics, (With my
    background, I managed to have the requirement waived.) and there may be
    a similar situation at Delft.
3. I took calculus in secondary school, and this shows up on my university
    transcript. (AP Mathematics: Calculus BC, fall 2008)

None of these courses were in the math department at my unversity, and
that might have caused some confusion.

Also, I have demonstrated an ability to take a higher level computer science
course. The one computer science course I have ever taken was Introduction to
Natural Language processing (CS 4740, spring 2011). This course was
considered an advanced course at my university, and most of the students in the
course were graduate students. Among other things, the course involved
probability, linear algebra, and programming.
I received a perfect score (4.0) in the course.

### Computer science background
My curriculum vitae should demonstrate that I have a rather strong
understanding of computer science even though I haven't taken many courses
in computer science. I've worked as a software engineer, spoken at major
industry conferences, and even taught computer programming.

## Copy of the contested decision
The following decision was sent to me over email.

    MSC REGISTRATION NUMBER 46333
    
    
    T.K.  Levine
    54 Walworth Avenue
     10583 AND Scarsdale
    Verenigde Staten van Amerika
    
    
    Dear Mr. Levine,
    
    We regret to inform you that the MSc Programme Selection Committee has declined your application for admission to the MSc programme 2014 - 2016 in Master Computer Science at Delft University of Technology (TU Delft). TU Delft maintains admission requirements for Master's programmes. These admission requirements are published on the website of TU Delft. The reason for the rejection of your application for admission is:
    
    The Selection Committee considers your academic background/specialisation not closely enough related to the MSc programme you wish to participate in.
    
    We would like to thank you for the interest shown in our university and we wish you success in your further career.
    
    On behalf of the Executive Board.
    
    Sincerely,
    
    
    Carla Flühr MA
    Team Leader Admission & Mobility
    Central International Office
    Delft University of Technology
    
    email:  msc2@tudelft.nl
    phone:  +31 (0)15 2788012
    
    
    You are entitled to appeal to the Examination Appeals Board, unless you were rejected on the grounds that you do not meet TU Delft's formal admission requirements, as stated on our website (such as obtaining the minimum CGPA score and the minimum score on the English language test).
    
    Please check www.appeal.tudelft.nl for further information on the procedure.
