My application to the software technology track of the computer science
masters program was declined. The reason given in the decision email is below.

> The Selection Committee considers your academic background/specialisation not closely enough related to the MSc programme you wish to participate in.

I believe this to correspond with the following
[admissions requirement[(http://www.tudelft.nl/en/study/studying-at-the-tu-delft/admission-and-application/msc-with-international-degree/admission-requirements/).

> A good university Bachelor's degree in a main subject closely related to the MSc programme to which you are applying, with good grades on the key courses.

This leaves me somewhat confused.

## Entitlement to appeal
It is unclear to me whether I am entiled to appeal; the decision email says
the following.

> You are entitled to appeal to the Examination Appeals Board, unless you were rejected on the grounds that you do not meet TU Delft's formal admission requirements, as stated on our website (such as obtaining the minimum CGPA score and the minimum score on the English language test).

First, is closeness of academic background a formal admission requirement?
If not, I can appeal.

Second, what else do I do if the Selection Committee was in error regarding the
closeness of my academic background?

Some further documentation of the appeal process might clarify this.
I didn't manage to find that, but I did get this cryptic email in response
to a these two questions.

> Dear Tom
> 
> You applied to do the Software technology track of the Computer Science
> master's degree. The Selection Committee considers your academic
> background/specialisation not closely enough related to the MSc programme
> you wish to participate in. If you want to appeal their decision, you can
> follow the appeal procedures.
> 
> Please check www.appeal.tudelft.nl for further information on the procedure.
> 
> Kid regards

So I guess I'll appeal.

## Closeness of academic background
Relate to software technology...

My bachelor's program was in ergonomics and was closely related to
the software technology track of the computer science masters at Delft.
Much of my coursework was on the topics of usability and human-computer
interaction design; my courses involved developing software.

Some of the confusion about the closeness of my bachelor's program might
come from the slightly different focus of the
(widely renouned) ergonomics program at Delft; ergonomics is a rather broad
discipline, and there appears to be more focus on building architecture in
the program at Delft than there was in my program.

Moreover, there is much overlap between usability research and software
engineering. The same methods that are used in usability research to
design easy-to-use products are also used in software engineering to
structure source code in ways that are clear for engineers. Both of these
disciplines involve very fast-pased product development have both developed
specialized approaches for the management of projects. There is much overlap
in these methods between the two disciplines.

## Math background
While it wasn't mentioned in the decision email, I heard that the selection
committee was also concerned that I do not have enough of a math background
to take the higher level computer science courses. In case that was indeed
an issue, I address it here as well.

I'm going to focus for now on things that could be inferred from my academic
transcript, and I can provide more demonstrations of my math background if
you like.

First, I don't know what basic math is expected of people entering the
computer science masters, but I'm quite sure that I've studied it.

1. All of my six statistics courses involved ample probability theory.
    (These are the courses in the "BTRY", "PAM", and "STSCI" departments.)
2. My multivariate statistics course (BTRY 4100, spring 2010) was full
    of linear algebra; a course in linear algebra was one of its
    prerequisites.
3. I took calculus in secondary school, and this shows up on my university
    transcript (AP Mathematics: Calculus BC, fall 2008)

None of these courses were in the math department at my unversity, and
that might have caused some confusion.

Finally, I have demonstrated an ability to take a higher level computer science
course. The one computer science course I have ever taken was Introduction to
Natural Language processing (CS 4740, spring 2011). This course was
considered an advanced course at my university, and most of the students in the
course were graduate students. Among other things, te course involved
probability, linear algebra, and programming.
I received a perfect score (4.0) in the course.
