I'm supposed to discuss these things in the essay.

> Your motivation for taking the MSc programme of your choice.
> Why you are interested in TU Delft and what you expect to find here
> If there are optional specialisations in the MSc programme of your choice: which specialisation(s) interest you most, and why?
> Describe your hypothetical thesis project; what kind of a project would you prefer if you were free to make a choice? Also briefly explain what you would want to explore in your thesis project. Provide a maximum of three hypothetical thesis topics and elaborate on your particular interests in them.
> A brief summary (maximum 250 words) of the thesis work or the final assignment (to be) done for your Bachelor’s programme, including information on the credits earned, grade, and full workload.

The essay follows.

# I want to study how people use about spreadsheets

## My motivation and interest in TU Delft
In my present research, I am obtaining hundreds of thousands of spreadsheets
and exploriing what possibilities emerge when I look at all of them.
I recently met Felienne H, who is a professor in the department (?).
She is the only other person I know of who is doing the same sort of research.
We had a wonderful conversation at a recent conference, and I would like to
continue my research under her.

Aside from the interest in TU Delft specifically, I am interested in getting
some formal schooling in computer science. I have been programming for about
ten years and have been doing software engineering professionally for the past
two-and-a-half years, but I haven't really taken formal courses on computer science.

## My hypothetical thesis project
My thesis project for the MSc would be an extension of my present research.
The basic premise of my research has been to explore what is possible when
we look at many spreadsheets at once, but I've been packaging my present
research into practical software tools that assist in the management and
sharing of disparate datasets. For my thesis project, I would like to prototype
the "search engine for spreadsheets" that I describe below.

When we search for ordinary papers, we type words into a search bar and get
pages of words back. What if we could search for spreadsheets by typing spreadsheets
into a search bar and getting spreadsheets back? To use my hypothetical thesis
project, people would go to a website and upload a spreadsheet. The uploaded
spreadsheet would be compared against one million spreadsheets that have previously
been found on the internet. After uploading a spreadsheet, a person will see
a page with links to relevant spreadsheets, previews of these spreadsheets,
and with brief notes as to why each spreadsheet was deemed relevant.

The novel part of this project is the manner of comparison; in addition to using
conventional search engine approaches, this website will look at the structure, schema,
and metadata of spreadsheets. It will identify relevant spreadsheets based on the
statistical properties of the uploaded spreadsheet. It would also allow for filtering
of search results based on these various properties.

Here are some sorts of unusual search strategies and filtering tool would include.

1. Find spreadsheets that can be easily combined with the uploaded spreadsheet
2. Find spreadsheets with the same statistical unit as the uploaded spreadsheet
3. Find spreadsheets that were produced by the same software
4. Find updated versions of the uploaded spreadsheet
5. Limit results to spreadsheets that are granular enough; for example, require
    that spreadsheets about air quality have data about cities rather than just
    countries.
6. Limit results to well-maintained and up-to-date datasets
7. Limit results to spreadsheets that are large enough for statistical analyses

This project might seem overly grand, but I believe it to be quite doable because
I have already developed prototypes of the various components of the system.

## Final assignment for my Bachelor's program
While I was in my second year of university, a friend remarked that people
"hover" (a posture between sitting and standing) at dirty toilets and that
hovering makes toilets dirty. (I have since termed this viscious cycle as
the "hovering cycle".) I sought to establish whether this cycle of hovering
and toilet dirt indeed exists. I searched extensively for literature on the
topic and found nothing that addressed my specific curiosity.

The core of my study was a questionnaire to randomly selected university students
(graduate and undergraduate). The questionnaire asked participants about what
postures and other bathroom practices they use and about how these practices changed
when bathrooms were dirty.

Much was involved in running this questionnaire.

* I had been reading literature on the topic since my second year of university,
    and I wrote a review of this literature.
* I prototyped the questionnaire for several months before releasing it.
* I obtained approval to run the study from the university's institutional
    review board.
* I applied for and received two grants to pay the participants in the study.
* I ran a pilot test of the questionnaire.
* I assessed test-retest reliability of the questionnaire through another sampling.
* I wrote several in-depth reports on the statistical properties of the results as
  I interpreted the results.

I published a distilled version of the results on my website
(http://thomaslevine.com/!/hovering-cycle), and
I was invited to publish a simplied version on the website of
Public Hygiene Lets Us Stay Human, a toilet availability advocacy group
(http://www.phlush.org/2013/02/23/the-hovering-cycle/).

While this was a project that I worked on for the final year of my Bachelors,
this was not an official thesis. I worked on this as part of my
Hunter R Rawlings III Presidential Research Scholarship and thus received
wages for nominally six hours per week (for the whole year).
This is comparable to the workload
expected for a Bachelor's thesis; students writing Bachelor's theses earned
at most three credits per semester for the thesis.
