Francis asked for a specifications for the reference letter.

## Official directions
Delft doesn't say very much about what the letter should say;
the [FAQ](../faq) from their email says this.

> There is <u>no specific format</u> for the MSc recommendation letters.
> We request you to provide two, signed, recommendation letters;
> one from a professor or an assistant professor from the faculty from
> which you graduated and one from your employer, if you already
> have work experience.

So just include an image of an old-fashioned hand-drawn signature.

## General suggestions from other websites
I searched around on the internet. These articles looked less spammy than others.

* [Writing a Reference Letter (With Examples)](http://www.dailywritingtips.com/writing-a-reference-letter-with-examples/)
* [Tips for Writing a Grad School Recommendation Letter for an Employee](http://gradschool.about.com/od/writingletters/p/employerrecletter.htm)

To summarize these two articles,

* Introduce yourself.
* Say good things about me, including specific good things I did.
* The articles say to act formal and business-like,
    but I suspect that that's not as important.

Also, [Reference-Letter.com](http://www.reference-letter.com/) is hilarious.

## Directions specific to me
I'm applying to a computer science program but have only ever taken one course
in computer science.

As an admissions officier,
I would want Francis's letter to explain that Tom knows a lot about computer science
so that I feel comfortable with his lack of formal computer science credentials.

## Things you could write about
Here are specific things I worked on at ScraperWiki that you might write about,
in case you are having trouble coming up with things.

* Consulting projects
* Development of ScraperWiki, both Classic and Cobalt
* DumpTruck, which became the scraperwiki libraries for backwards compatibility
* Urchin (tests for shell deployment scripts)
* Discussing product things and data analysis patterns and trends
* Data journalism training/speaking
