tags: ['learn']
----------------
# Learning data stuff
Lots of people seem to want to learn computer-data-stuff
from me. Here's a learning approach that I want to try.
Please read below and then
[email me](mailto:_@thomaslevine.com)
if you're interested.

## Why not classrooms
First, let's talk about some more conventional things and
why I don't like them

### What should be taught?
For at least computer-data-stuff, I've been thinking that
it's not worth having a set curriculum for a class of more
than a couple days. It's rather hard to figure out what should
go in the curriculum in the first place, and then it's hard
to figure out which class's curriculum is the one that a
particular person should learn.

### Laziness
Part of the issue with classrooms is that it's a lot of work
on the teachers. Even if I'm not teaching every day, it's a
lot of work for me to explain things; I only like doing it if
I'm teaching a lot of people at once.


## Generalizing
I decided about a year ago that I'll teach things to
people one-on-one, but only if I write down what I'm saying so
that I can later write up a tutorial for other people. This is
still a bit of work, but it's a lot better. Teaching people
one-on-one lets me figure out what they need to know, and writing
about it lets me teach lots of people without doing that much
talking.

But there are too many things I want to write about

## What I propose
If you want to learn stuff, this is what I want to try.

You'll do your own projects that are interesting to you and
related to the stuff you want to learn, and you'll talk with me
at least once every of couple weeks for assorted advice and help
with specific confusing things.

In return for this advice, you'll infrequently write little
tutorials about specific things that you previously found
really confusing but later figured out. (For inspiration,
see [protocols](/!/street-sign-protocol) and
[binary files](/!/downloading-binary-files-is-not-magic/).

Actually, they don't have to be written; they can be sound
or video or food recipes or statues; it just has to be something
that lots of people can use, because then we can teach more
people more things with less work.
