Some of the words and speech patterns I use came from very specific places.


## Grammatical constructions

### Adjective and noun of the same family
I sometimes use an adjective to describe a noun of the same family.

> Your reasoning is very reasonable.

Once in a while, I even add in the adverb.

I started doing this after reading the placeholder documentation that
Chris Blower wrote for Cobalt. Here it is.

> helpful help

Or did I? I just recently (March 25, 2015) watched *The Point*, and
one of the pointed pointless characters talked like this. The first
time I watched *The Point* was around the time when Chris wrote that
documentation. Hmm.

## Words
I say "woah" a lot. Well, it's more like "wo-OH". I think this came from
Zarino Zappia.

The words "posh" and "bizarre" came from Annabel Church.

The word "particular" came from Freedom King, who used it frequently in
my statistics classes to distinguish one particular sampling unit from
another.

I don't know where "chainsaw" came from.

The intonation with which I say "data" (DAY-duh) might have come from
Ingrid Burrington.

The phrase "pretty okay" came from Ingrid as well.

I fell in love with the concept of a second-person plural pronoun and thus picked
up "y'all" after a couple visits to cities in the southern United States.

"Anti-climax" came from Jill Bodner. She used this word in describing her
plans for her 21st birthday.

## Other
I sometimes make a touch typing gesture while talking about a computer
thing, to indicate that the computer thing involves typing. This came
from David R. Jones.
