# Statistics move night
I want to have a statistics movie night. We'll watch

* [Bill Nye the Science Guy: Probability](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uck_xkJYuDU)
* Bill Nye the Science Guy: Pseudoscience
* The video on random sampling from jury duty
* My statistics doodles video once I make it?

## About that random sampling video from jury duty
I called the jury clerk, and he told me that it's called "Call to Serve" and
is distributed by the Federal Judicial Center Information Services Office.
He gave me a United States Courts intranet URL
([.dcn](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/comp.protocols.dns.bind/bDO5_EEGClA)
for the FJC catalog, which I obviously couldn't access, but I found the FJCISO
phone number on its internet website, and I called.

I spoke with Matt Sarago (msarago@fjc.gov) and learned the following.

* Produced by a production company for Georgia, and that came with copyright restrictions.
* NTIS sold the old one, and that's the one on YouTube.
  * Someone just bought it and (illegally?) put it on YouTube.
* I called the Federal Judicial Center Information Services Office
* Personal reaction: It's saying how important it is to show up.
* It sounds like only a jury administrator would have it.
    It was probably distributed only by the FJC.
  * Doesn't know whether a jury administrator would have the right
      to distribute it to me---probably wouldn't
* The old video said something bad about real estate agents and got people upset,
    so there was an update to that.

He sent me

* YouTube link to the old version of Call to Serve
* YouTube link to a video for jurors in patent cases that might be interesting.
* Information on the licensing of Call to Serve from its credits, so that I may
    look further into obtaining the video

Unfortunately, none if these got me anyware.
