In August 2014, this is what I carred.

* Computers
  * Laptop (Acer Aspire One 725-0488) and power adapter
  * Phone (Nexus S), many micro-USB cables, USB power adapter
  * Electricity plug adapter for different countries
* Clothes (including the clothes I'm wearing)
  * Four pairs of [Injinji](http://www.injinji.com/) Performance Series Toe Socks
  * Four pairs of cotton underwear
  * One pair of plastic long pants
  * One pair of cotton short pants
  * Three plastic shirts (long-sleeved EMS Techwick with half-height zipper)
  * Water-resistant jacket
  * Warm sweater (optional)
* Teeth things
  * Toothbrush
  * Toothpaste (travel-size only)
  * Normal floss
  * Floss for under my braces
  * Retainer
* Footwear
  * Pink Vibram FiveFingers
  * Boots (must be worn if I am to carry both pairs of shoes)
* Documents
  * Passport
  * A few blank cheques
  * Public transit cards (MetroCard, Oyster Card, Tap Card, &c.)
  * United States national identification (learner's permit)
  * Ordinary wallet things
* Empty space for food
* Other
  * Small paper notebook
  * Pens
  * Keys
* Supplies stored in tiny cosmetic sample containers
  * [Blue Lizard](http://www.bluelizard.net/) sunscreen
  * Shampoo
  * Laundry powder (powder so I can bring it on a plane)
* Supplies stored with no special container
  * Napkins
  * Empty plastic bags
  * Disposible water bottle
* An empty [Ribz Front Pack](http://www.ribzwear.com/ribz-front-pack/), small-size, for extra space in an emergency and for separating dirty laundry.

## Notable non-contents
There is no pillow nor towel; clothes can be used for these purposes.

A bed, bed sheets, and blankets are excluded. I can take these with me,
but I would need to bring another bag to carry it.

The above contents account for free space for food, but the specific foods
are not listed.

I have an Aaxa P300 projector (with HDMI cable, and power adapter) that
I have previously found useful but have removed to keep things small.

The supplies need to be refilled as I use them.
If I'm in the same place for a while, I purchase larger containers of these things.

## Likely changes
I'm probably going to switch the Acer Aspire One 725-0488 for a ThinkPad X201 as
the latter is slightly better supported on Linux and is easier to find parts for.

### Removing big stuff
These things should save some space.

* Switch the earmuffs for custom earplugs.
* Do something about my glasses; I have three pairs, and that takes up a lot of space.
* Swap my disposible water bottle for a flat water "bottle".

### Ideas from Ginger
[Ginger Coons](http://adaptstudio.ca/) had a bunch of great ideas.

* Buy everything at sporting/camping stores.
* Fancy wool underwear
* Leave-in laundry detergent
* Get Nalgene's tiny bottles. (They seemed a bit big for me, but it's worth looking at them.)

### Containers
I'm getting a feel for how big my containers should be.

I usually don't need shampoo and conditioner, but when I need it,
I need it for a few days. I think I need four or five sample containers
of shampoo and two or three of conditioner.

I want a container for mouthwash.

Six sample containers of detergent is more than enough, but I'm fine with
having extra for that as it's rather important.

One sample container of sunscreen goes surprisingly far, but I could still
go for more containers of it.

### Clothes
Switch cotton underwear for silk or plastic so that it dries faster.

My ideal **jacket**, which I doubt I'll find, is a tiny shell with **lots** of
pockets, enough to store all of my other clothes. This way, I can keep all
of my clothes in the shell and put the things I need day-to-day in my backpack.
When I have to carry all of my stuff with me, it'll probably still fit in
the backpack, but I'll be able to distribute the bulk of the clothes in the
shell, to carry some food in my backpack, and to access the things in my
backpack more easily. Also, I won't need the front pack anymore

If I can plan ahead better, get a C5 (or is it C6) cable specific to
whatever country I'm going to so I don't need the adapter. Or maybe I can
find some sort of fancy one that has the adapters built in. Or maybe just
get smaller power adapters.
