Elio asked about a [Twitter](https://twitter.com) client. Do they exist?
I searched my package manager (`pacman` because I'm using Arch Linux).

    $ pacman -Ss twitter
    extra/bitlbee 3.2.2-1
        Brings instant messaging (XMPP, MSN, Yahoo!, AIM, ICQ, Twitter) to IRC
    community/bti 034-1
        Console client for Twitter and identi.ca
    community/choqok 1.4-2
        A Twitter/identi.ca/laconica client for KDE
    community/perl-term-readline-ttytter 1.4-2
        A Perl readline for the ttytter twitter client
    community/ttytter 2.1.00-4
        A multi-functional, command-line twitter client

They do! I've used bti and ttytter before, and I preferred ttytter, so we're
going to do that. First, install ttytter.

    sudo pacman -S ttytter

Run it for the first time.

    $ ttytter 
    -- using SSL for default URLs.
    trying to find cURL ... /usr/bin/curl
    -- Streaming API disabled (no -dostream) (TTYtter will use REST API only)
    -- no version check performed (use /vcheck, or -vcheck to check on startup)

    +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    || WELCOME TO TTYtter: Authorize TTYtter by signing into Twitter with OAuth ||
    +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    Looks like you're starting TTYtter for the first time, and/or creating a
    keyfile. Welcome to the most user-hostile, highly obfuscated, spaghetti code
    infested and obscenely obscure Twitter client that's out there. You'll love it.

    TTYtter generates a keyfile that contains credentials for you, including your
    access tokens. This needs to be done JUST ONCE. You can take this keyfile with
    you to other systems. If you revoke TTYtter's access, you must remove the
    keyfile and start again with a new token. You need to do this once per account
    you use with TTYtter; only one account token can be stored per keyfile. If you
    have multiple accounts, use -keyf=... to specify different keyfiles. KEEP THESE
    FILES SECRET.

    ** This wizard will overwrite /home/tlevine/.ttytterkey
    Press RETURN/ENTER to continue or CTRL-C NOW! to abort.

    Request from https://api.twitter.com/oauth/request_token ... SUCCEEDED!  [0/231]
    1. Visit, in your browser, ALL ON ONE LINE,

    https://api.twitter.com/oauth/authorize?oauth_token=4Bsy5D5eFHogDMRW9GZrUCh9aV9P
    d8E2

    2. If you are not already signed in, fill in your username and password.

    3. Verify that TTYtter is the requesting application, and that its permissions
    are as you expect (read your timeline, see who you follow and follow new
    people, update your profile, post tweets on your behalf and access your
    direct messages). IF THIS IS NOT CORRECT, PRESS CTRL-C NOW!

    4. Click Authorize app.

    5. A PIN will appear. Enter it below.

    Enter PIN> 

Follow the directions; copy the URL and enter the PIN.

Run ttytter again

    ttytter

And then look at the help

    /help

Here are some commands

(No command--just typing something)
    Tweet the message that you have typed.
`/refresh`
    View recent tweets.
`/delete`
    Delete a tweet you posted.
`/replies`
    View replies to your Tweets.

Here's an example of deleting.

    c7> <eddietejeda> So sad: "Virgin Galactic’s SpaceShipTwo Crashes During Test Flight" http://nyti.ms/1tp6Hvn
    c8> (x2) <%blejman> RT @martinvirdis: "Si una imagen vale mil palabras, un MVP vale mil reuniones" #leanstartup cc: @blejman
    c9> <thomaslevine> Hi
    -- checking for most recent direct messages:
    [DM da0][vonneudeck/Tue Oct 21 11:03:23 +0000 2014] do you have a t-mobile USA sim that i could borrow for a few minutes?
    [DM da1][vonneudeck/Tue Oct 21 12:00:01 +0000 2014] I need to unlock a US phone
    -- notification: API rate limit is currently 15 req/15min
    -- no version check performed (use /vcheck, or -vcheck to check on startup)
    -- you are logged in as thomaslevine
    /refresh
    TTYtter> d0> <nicolastorzec> The registration for Skype's real-time speech translator is open: http://www.skype.com/en/translator-preview/
    d1> <emorisse> OpenStack maturation, 3 reasons more than technology by @dhdeans http://red.ht/1wXKp6p
    /delete c9

