I've been frustrated with the common use of money for several years.
I'm going to try articulating these frustations.

## 
Once we have exchanged money, it is a lot of work to update the amount
of money that we transacted. For example, if I sell you something, we
decide on the price at the same time that I provide you the thing;
if I later decide that the price should have been lower, it can be hard
for me to give you the money. And if you later decide that the price should
have been lower, you have to convince me to give you a refund.

Money is a rather abstract thing, so what do I mean by what the price
"should" be? I'm thinking of money as an approximation of the "true"
value embodied in a thing. For example, if I sell you a thing for $80,
we're estimating that the true value of the thing is about $80.
It's hard to figure out what this true value is, though, so we should
expect that it's not *exactly* $80.

If we trust that the errors are small and that they average out to $0
for everyone n the long run, we don't need to be able to update the values
of transactions. On the other hand, when we determine that unfairness occurred
and that there were systematic mismatches between the amount of money
exchanged and the "true" value of the transaction, we do need to update
the values of transactions in order that money may serve as an accurate
indicator of value.

We conduct the "updating" that I discuss with things like refunds,
advocacy, reviews, lawsuits, donations, and criminal court. For example,
if you determine that a product that you bought was defective, you may
ask for a refund; if a bunch of people decide that a power plant is
removing more value from the environment than they are paying as money,
a bunch of people might advocate for the government to do something
about it; if you like a restaurant and think that it's a really good
deal, you can write about it in a review; if the company knowingly
provided you with defective products, you can sue them; if you thnik
that someone with no money is worth anything, you can give her or him
some money; and if someone robs a bank, you can arrest him and take the
money back.

### 
one dimension

abstract value, which can be exchanged for lots of things

* interactions

## Better ways

Make it easier to adjust transactions, and record more dimensions!

Sharing our transaction history with each other might get us pretty far
with the first issue

Julian Todd suggests that we just hire a thousand lawyers for everyone.

Record more information about transactions! For important things,
we keep good accounts that tell us that a transaction occurred,
that a particular amount of money was moved, some information about
how it was moved, and maybe a description of what was exchanged for
the money.

Usually we just record
that we have a certain amount
