## First Name
Thomas

## Last Name
Levine

## E-mail Address
\_@thomaslevine.com

## Organization
csv soundsystetm

## Twitter account
thomaslevine

## Blog/Personal Website
http://thomaslevine.com

## Stream
Tools

## Session Title
Making a spreadsheet about spreadsheets:
What can we do when we look at thousands of spreadsheets at once?

## Session description
Now that we have tons of open data floating around, it's quite easy
to acquire many thousands of spreadsheets that you have never seen
before. What can we do with this?


## Session motivation
There are too many cool data to look at, and I want to look at them
all. But I also want to sleep. So I get computers to look at the data
for me. I've been studying this topic for
[about a year](http://thomaslevine.com/open-data) and would like to
get people thinking about the possibilities, get ideas from people,
and meet people who have similar interests.

## Session outcomes
Likely topics of brainstorming are

* How can we quantify how good or bad a spreadsheet is?
* How can we look for spreadsheets that are relevant to a particular thing?
* How can we deal with bad metadata? Can we infer metadata from similar
    spreadsheets?
* The way we publish data might affect how we use them. Can we test
    for effects of data publishing methods by looking at how thousands
    of differently published datasets are used?

Each group will write up the main points that they came up in the
brainstorming, and I'll photograph any diagrams that get made.
I'll distribute these recordings freely.

## How would the session be structured?
The session will start with a three-minute overview of Tom's work on
this topic to get people thinking, then we'll break into groups of
four to six people each, and groups will brainstorm things that we
can do by looking at lots of spreadsheets at once. At the end of the
session, each group will have two minutes to present whatever it
came up with.

## How does your session cont...

## Is this session app...
Yes

## Would you prefer to...
English is great. French is also okay.

## Will your session involve phys...
No
